 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 GLOSSARY OF DEFINED TERMS 
 
 Unless the context requires otherwise, references to “Pfizer,” “the Company,” “we,” “us” or “our” in this 2017 Financial Report (defined below) refer to Pfizer Inc. and its subsidiaries. We also have used several other terms in this 2017 Financial Report, most of which are explained or defined below: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 This Financial Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, which was filed as Exhibit 13 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017 
 
 
 2017 Form 10-K 
 
 Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017 
 
 
 AAV 
 
 Adeno-Associated Virus 
 
 
 ABO 
 
 Accumulated postretirement benefit obligation 
 
 
 ACA (Also referred to as U.S. Healthcare Legislation) 
 
 U.S. Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act. 
 
 
 ACIP 
 
 Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices 
 
 
 ALK 
 
 anaplastic lymphoma kinase 
 
 
 Allergan 
 
 Allergan plc 
 
 
 Alliance revenues 
 
 Revenues from alliance agreements under which we co-promote products discovered or developed by other companies or us 
 
 
 AM-Pharma 
 
 AM-Pharma B.V. 
 
 
 Anacor 
 
 Anacor Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 
 
 
 Astellas 
 
 Astellas Pharma U.S. Inc. 
 
 
 ASU 
 
 Accounting Standards Update 
 
 
 ATM-AVI 
 
 aztreonam-avibactam 
 
 
 Bamboo 
 
 Bamboo Therapeutics, Inc. 
 
 
 Baxter 
 
 Baxter International Inc. 
 
 
 BMS 
 
 Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 
 
 
 BRCA 
 
 BReast CAncer susceptibility gene 
 
 
 CDC 
 
 U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 
 
 
 Cellectis 
 
 Cellectis SA 
 
 
 Celltrion 
 
 Celltrion Inc. and Celltrion Healthcare, Co., Ltd. (collectively) 
 
 
 Citibank 
 
 Citibank N.A. 
 
 
 CLBP 
 
 chronic low back pain 
 
 
 CML 
 
 chronic myelogenous leukemia 
 
 
 Developed Markets 
 
 U.S., Western Europe, Japan, Canada, Australia, South Korea, Scandinavian countries, Finland and New Zealand 
 
 
 EEA 
 
 European Economic Area 
 
 
 EH 
 
 Essential Health 
 
 
 ELT 
 
 Executive Leadership Team 
 
 
 EMA 
 
 European Medicines Agency 
 
 
 Emerging Markets 
 
 Includes, but is not limited to, the following markets: Asia (excluding Japan and South Korea), Latin America, Eastern Europe, Africa, the Middle East, Central Europe and Turkey 
 
 
 EPS 
 
 earnings per share 
 
 
 EU 
 
 European Union 
 
 
 FASB 
 
 Financial Accounting Standards Board 
 
 
 FDA 
 
 U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
 
 
 GAAP 
 
 Generally Accepted Accounting Principles 
 
 
 GHD 
 
 growth hormone deficiency 
 
 
 GIST 
 
 gastrointestinal stromal tumors 
 
 
 GPD 
 
 Global Product Development organization 
 
 
 GS&Co. 
 
 Goldman, Sachs & Co. 
 
 
 HER 
 
 human epidermal growth factor receptor 
 
 
 HER2- 
 
 human epidermal growth factor receptor 2-negative 
 
 
 hGH-CTP 
 
 human growth hormone 
 
 
 HIS 
 
 Hospira Infusion Systems 
 
 
 Hisun 
 
 Zhejiang Hisun Pharmaceuticals Co., Ltd. 
 
 
 Hisun Pfizer 
 
 Hisun Pfizer Pharmaceuticals Company Limited 
 
 
 Hospira 
 
 Hospira, Inc. 
 
 
 HR+ 
 
 hormone receptor-positive 
 
 
 ICU Medical 
 
 ICU Medical, Inc. 
 
 
 IH 
 
 Innovative Health 
 
 
 InnoPharma 
 
 InnoPharma, Inc. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 i 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 IPR&D 
 
 in-process research and development 
 
 
 IRC 
 
 Internal Revenue Code 
 
 
 IRS 
 
 U.S. Internal Revenue Service 
 
 
 IV 
 
 intravenous 
 
 
 Janssen 
 
 Janssen Biotech Inc. 
 
 
 J&J 
 
 Johnson & Johnson Corp. 
 
 
 King 
 
 King Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 
 
 
 LDL 
 
 low density lipoprotein 
 
 
 LEP 
 
 Legacy Established Products 
 
 
 LIBOR 
 
 London Interbank Offered Rate 
 
 
 Lilly 
 
 Eli Lilly & Company 
 
 
 LOE 
 
 loss of exclusivity 
 
 
 MCC 
 
 Merkel Cell Carcinoma 
 
 
 MCO 
 
 Managed Care Organization 
 
 
 MDV 
 
 multi-dose vial 
 
 
 Medivation 
 
 Medivation, Inc. 
 
 
 Merck 
 
 Merck & Co., Inc. 
 
 
 Moody’s 
 
 Moody’s Investors Service 
 
 
 NAV 
 
 Net asset value 
 
 
 NDA 
 
 new drug application 
 
 
 NovaQuest 
 
 NovaQuest Co-Investment Fund II, L.P. or NovaQuest Co-Investment Fund V, L.P., as applicable 
 
 
 NSCLC 
 
 non-small cell lung cancer 
 
 
 NYSE 
 
 New York Stock Exchange 
 
 
 OA 
 
 osteoarthritis 
 
 
 OPKO 
 
 OPKO Health, Inc. 
 
 
 OTC 
 
 over-the-counter 
 
 
 PARP 
 
 poly ADP ribose polymerase 
 
 
 
 PBM 
 
 Pharmacy Benefit Manager 
 
 
 PBO 
 
 Projected benefit obligation 
 
 
 Pharmacia 
 
 Pharmacia Corporation 
 
 
 PPS 
 
 Portfolio Performance Shares 
 
 
 PP&E 
 
 Property, plant & equipment 
 
 
 PSAs 
 
 Performance Share Awards 
 
 
 PTSRUs 
 
 Performance Total Shareholder Return Units 
 
 
 PTUs 
 
 Profit Units 
 
 
 RCC 
 
 renal cell carcinoma 
 
 
 recAP 
 
 recombinant human Alkaline Phosphatase 
 
 
 R&D 
 
 research and development 
 
 
 RPI 
 
 RPI Finance Trust 
 
 
 RSUs 
 
 Restricted Stock Units 
 
 
 Sandoz 
 
 Sandoz, Inc., a division of Novartis AG 
 
 
 Sangamo 
 
 Sangamo Therapeutics, Inc. 
 
 
 SEC 
 
 U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission 
 
 
 SGA 
 
 small for gestational age 
 
 
 S&P 
 
 Standard and Poor’s 
 
 
 SIP 
 
 Sterile Injectable Pharmaceuticals 
 
 
 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act or TCJA 
 
 H.R.1, “An Act to provide for reconciliation pursuant to titles II and V of the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2018” 
 
 
 Teuto 
 
 Laboratório Teuto Brasileiro S.A. 
 
 
 Teva 
 
 Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. 
 
 
 TSR 
 
 Total Shareholder Return 
 
 
 TSRUs 
 
 Total Shareholder Return Units 
 
 
 UC 
 
 urothelial carcinoma 
 
 
 U.K. 
 
 United Kingdom 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 United States 
 
 
 VAI 
 
 Voluntary Action Indicated 
 
 
 VAT 
 
 value added tax 
 
 
 ViiV 
 
 ViiV Healthcare Limited 
 
 
 WRD 
 
 Worldwide Research and Development 
 
 
 Zoetis 
 
 Zoetis Inc. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ii 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 INTRODUCTION 
 
 See the Glossary of Defined Terms at the beginning of this 2017 Financial Report for terms used throughout this Financial Review. Our Financial Review is provided to assist readers in understanding the results of operations, financial condition and cash flows of Pfizer Inc. and its subsidiaries (the Company). It should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The discussion in this Financial Review contains forward-looking statements that involve substantial risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, such as those discussed in Part 1, ITEM 1A, “Risk Factors” of our 2017 Form 10-K and in the “Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results”, “Our Operating Environment” and “Our Strategy” sections of this Financial Review. 
 
 The Financial Review is organized as follows: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ● 
 
 Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook 
 
 Beginning on page 2 
 
 
 
 
 This section provides information about the following: Financial Highlights, Our Business; Our 2017 Performance; Our Operating Environment; The Global Economic Environment, Our Strategy; Our Business Development Initiatives, such as acquisitions, dispositions, licensing and collaborations; and Our Financial Guidance for 2018. 
 
 
 
 
 ● 
 
 Significant Accounting Policies and Application of Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions 
 
 Beginning on page 16 
 
 
 
 
 This section discusses those accounting policies and estimates that we consider important in understanding our consolidated financial statements. For additional discussion of our accounting policies, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 1. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies . 
 
 
 
 
 ● 
 
 Analysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income 
 
 Beginning on page 20 
 
 
 
 
 This section includes a Revenues Overview section as well as the following sub-sections: 
 
 
 
 
 ○ Revenues-Major Products 
 
 Beginning on page 26 
 
 
 
 
 This sub-section provides an overview of several of our biopharmaceutical products. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ○ Product Developments-Biopharmaceutical 
 
 Beginning on page 30 
 
 
 
 
 This sub-section provides an overview of important biopharmaceutical product developments. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ○ Costs and Expenses 
 
 Beginning on page 34 
 
 
 
 
 This sub-section provides a discussion about our costs and expenses. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ○ Provision/(Benefit) for Taxes on Income 
 
 Beginning on page 37 
 
 
 
 
 This sub-section provides a discussion of items impacting our tax provisions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ○ Non-GAAP Financial Measure (Adjusted Income) 
 
 Beginning on page 38 
 
 
 
 
 This sub-section provides a discussion of an alternative view of performance used by management. 
 
 
 
 
 ● 
 
 Analysis of Operating Segment Information 
 
 Beginning on page 44 
 
 
 
 
 This section provides a discussion of the performance of each of our operating segments. 
 
 
 
 
 ● 
 
 Analysis of the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 
 
 Beginning on page 52 
 
 
 
 
 This section provides a discussion of changes in certain components of other comprehensive income. 
 
 
 
 
 ● 
 
 Analysis of the Consolidated Balance Sheets 
 
 Beginning on page 53 
 
 
 
 
 This section provides a discussion of changes in certain balance sheet accounts, including Accumulated other comprehensive loss . 
 
 
 
 
 ● 
 
 Analysis of the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
 
 Beginning on page 54 
 
 
 
 
 This section provides an analysis of our consolidated cash flows for the three years ended December 31, 2017. 
 
 
 
 
 ● 
 
 Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources 
 
 Beginning on page 56 
 
 
 
 
 This section provides an analysis of selected measures of our liquidity and of our capital resources as of December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, as well as a discussion of our outstanding debt and other commitments that existed as of December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016. Included in the discussion of outstanding debt is a discussion of the amount of financial capacity available to help fund Pfizer’s future activities. 
 
 
 
 
 ● 
 
 New Accounting Standards 
 
 Beginning on page 61 
 
 
 
 
 This section discusses accounting standards that we have recently adopted, as well as those that recently have been issued, but not yet adopted. 
 
 
 
 
 ● 
 
 Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results 
 
 Beginning on page 66 
 
 
 
 
 This section provides a description of the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in forward-looking statements presented in this Financial Review relating to, among other things, our anticipated operating and financial performance, business plans and prospects, in-line products and product candidates, including anticipatory regulatory submissions, data read-outs, approvals, performance, timing of exclusivity and potential benefits of Pfizer’s products and product candidates, strategic reviews, capital allocation, business-development plans, manufacturing and products supply and plans relating to share repurchases and dividends. Also included in this section are discussions of Financial Risk Management and Contingencies, including legal and tax matters. 
 
 
 Certain amounts in our Financial Review may not add due to rounding. All percentages have been calculated using unrounded amounts. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 1 
 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OVERVIEW OF OUR PERFORMANCE, OPERATING ENVIRONMENT, STRATEGY AND OUTLOOK 
 
 Financial Highlights 
 
 The following charts provide a summary of certain financial performance (in billions, except per share data): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Total Revenues––$52.5 billion 
 
 2017 Net Cash Flow from Operations––$16.5 billion 
 
 
 A decrease of 1% compared to 2016 
 
 An increase of 4% compared to 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Reported Diluted EPS––$3.52 
 
 2017 Adjusted Diluted EPS (Non- GAAP )––$2.65* 
 
 
 An increase of over 100% compared to 2016 
 
 An increase of 11% compared to 201 6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 For an understanding of Adjusted diluted EPS (which is a non-GAAP financial measure), including reconciliations of certain GAAP reported to non-GAAP adjusted information, see the “Non-GAAP Financial Measure (Adjusted Income)” section of this Financial Review. 
 Our Business 
 
 We apply science and our global resources to bring therapies to people that extend and significantly improve their lives through the discovery, development and manufacture of healthcare products. Our global portfolio includes medicines and vaccines, as well as many of the world’s best-known consumer healthcare products. We work across developed and emerging markets to advance wellness, prevention, treatments and cures that challenge the most feared diseases of our time. We collaborate with healthcare providers, governments and local communities to support and expand access to reliable, affordable healthcare around the world. Our revenues are derived from the sale of our products and, to a much lesser extent, from alliance agreements, under which we co-promote products discovered or developed by other companies or us (Alliance revenues). 
 
 We manage our commercial operations through two distinct business segments: Pfizer Innovative Health (IH) and Pfizer Essential Health (EH). For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 18A. Segment, Geographic and Other Revenue Information: Segment Information and the “Our Strategy––Commercial Operations” section of this Financial Review below. 
 
 The majority of our revenues come from the manufacture and sale of biopharmaceutical products. The biopharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and highly regulated. As a result, we face a number of industry-specific factors and challenges, which can significantly impact our results. These factors include, among others: the loss or expiration of intellectual property rights and the expiration of co-promotion and licensing rights, the ability to replenish innovative biopharmaceutical products, healthcare legislation, pipeline productivity, the regulatory environment, pricing and access pressures and competition. We also face challenges as a result of the global economic environment. For additional information about these factors and challenges, see the “Our Operating Environment” and “The Global Economic Environment” sections of this Financial Review and Part I, ITEM 1A, “Risk Factors,” of our 2017 Form 10-K. 
 
 The financial information included in our consolidated financial statements for our subsidiaries operating outside the U.S. is as of and for the year ended November 30 for each year presented. Pfizer's fiscal year-end for U.S. subsidiaries is as of and for the year ended December 31 for each year presented. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 References to developed and emerging markets in this Financial Review include: 
 
 
 Developed markets 
 
 
 
 U.S., Western Europe, Japan, Canada, Australia, South Korea, Scandinavian countries, Finland and New Zealand 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Emerging markets (include, but are not limited to) 
 
 
 
 Asia (excluding Japan and South Korea), Latin America, Eastern Europe, Africa, the Middle East, Central Europe and Turkey 
 References to operational variances in this Financial Review pertain to period-over-period growth rates that exclude the impact of foreign exchange as well as the negative currency impact related to Venezuela in 2015. The operational variances are determined by multiplying or dividing, as appropriate, our current year U.S. dollar results by the current year average foreign exchange rates and then multiplying or dividing, as appropriate, those amounts by the prior-year average foreign exchange rates. Although exchange rate changes are part of our business, they are not within our control. Exchange rate changes, however, can mask positive or negative trends in the business; therefore, we believe presenting operational variances provides useful information to evaluate the results of our business. 
 
 On December 22, 2017, the U.S. enacted significant changes to U.S. tax law following the passage and signing of the TCJA. The TCJA is complex and significantly changes the U.S. corporate income tax system by, among other things, reducing the Federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, transitioning U.S. international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a territorial tax system and imposing a repatriation tax on deemed repatriated accumulated post-1986 earnings of foreign subsidiaries. For information on estimates and assumptions in connection with the TCJA, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 5A . Tax Matters: Taxes on Income from Continuing Operations. 
 
 In October 2017, we announced that we are reviewing strategic alternatives for our Consumer Healthcare business. A range of options will be considered, including a full or partial separation of the Consumer Healthcare business from Pfizer through a spin-off, sale or other transaction, and we may ultimately determine to retain the business. 
 
 Our significant business development activities include: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 On February 3, 2017, we completed the sale of our global infusion systems net assets, HIS, to ICU Medical for up to approximately $900 million , composed of cash and contingent cash consideration, ICU Medical common stock and seller financing. At closing, we received 3.2 million newly issued shares of ICU Medical common stock, which we initially valued at approximately $428 million , a promissory note in the amount of $75 million and net cash of approximately $200 million before customary adjustments for net working capital. In addition, we are entitled to receive a contingent amount of up to an additional $225 million in cash based on ICU Medical’s achievement of certain cumulative performance targets for the combined company through December 31, 2019. The operating results of HIS are included in our consolidated statement of income and EH’s operating results through February 2, 2017 and, therefore, our financial results, and EH’s operating results, for the year ended December 31, 2017 reflect approximately one month of HIS domestic operations and approximately two months of HIS international operations, while our financial results, and EH’s operating results, for the year ended December 31, 2016 reflect 12 months of HIS global operations and for the year ended December 31, 2015 reflect four months of HIS U.S. operations and three months of HIS international operations. Assets and liabilities associated with HIS are presented as held for sale in the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2016. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 On December 22, 2016, which falls in the first fiscal quarter of 2017 for our international operations, we acquired the development and commercialization rights to AstraZeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business, primarily outside the U.S. for $1,045 million , composed of cash and contingent consideration. Commencing from the acquisition date, our financial statements reflect the assets, liabilities, operating results and cash flows of this business, and, in accordance with our international reporting period, our financial results, EH’s operating results, and cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2017 reflect approximately 11 months of the small molecule anti-infectives business acquired from AstraZeneca. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 On September 28, 2016, we acquired Medivation for $81.50 per share. The total fair value of consideration transferred for Medivation was approximately $14.3 billion in cash ( $13.9 billion , net of cash acquired). Of this consideration, approximately $365 million was not paid as of December 31, 2016, and was recorded in Other current liabilities . The remaining consideration was paid as of December 31, 2017 . Commencing from the acquisition date, our financial statements reflect the assets, liabilities, operating results and cash flows of Medivation. Therefore, Medivation operations are reflected in our financial results, IH’s operating results, and cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2017. In accordance with our domestic and international reporting periods, our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2016 reflect approximately three months of Medivation operations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 On June 24, 2016, we acquired Anacor for $99.25 per share. The total fair value of consideration transferred for Anacor was approximately $4.9 billion in cash ( $4.5 billion , net of cash acquired), plus $698 million debt assumed. Commencing from the acquisition date, our financial statements reflect the assets, liabilities, operating results and cash flows of Anacor. Therefore, Anacor operations are reflected in our financial results, IH’s operating results, and cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2017. In accordance with our domestic and international reporting periods, our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2016 reflect approximately six months of Anacor operations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 On April 6, 2016, we announced that the merger agreement between Pfizer and Allergan entered into on November 22, 2015 was terminated by mutual agreement of the companies. The decision was driven by the actions announced by the U.S. Department of Treasury on April 4, 2016, which the companies concluded qualified as an “Adverse Tax Law Change” under the merger agreement. In connection with the termination of the merger agreement, on April 8, 2016 (which fell into Pfizer’s second fiscal quarter of 2016), Pfizer paid Allergan $150 million (pre-tax) for reimbursement of Allergan’s expenses associated with the terminated transaction (see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 4 . Other (Income)/Deductions –– Net ). Pfizer and Allergan also released each other from any and all claims in connection with the merger agreement. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 On September 3, 2015, we acquired Hospira for approximately $16.1 billion in cash ( $15.7 billion , net of cash acquired). Commencing from the acquisition date, our financial statements reflect the assets, liabilities, operating results and cash flows of Hospira. In accordance with our 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 3 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 domestic and international reporting periods, our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 reflect four months of Hospira U.S. operations and three months of Hospira international operations. 
 For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 2. Acquisitions, Sale of Hospira Infusion Systems Net Assets, Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements, Equity-Method Investments and Cost-Method Investment and the “Our Strategy”, “Our Business Development Initiatives” and “Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives” sections of this Financial Review. 
 
 Impact of Recent Hurricanes in Puerto Rico 
 
 We have manufacturing and commercial operations in Puerto Rico, which were impacted by the recent hurricanes toward the end of the third quarter in 2017. While our three manufacturing sites sustained some damage and became inoperable due to issues impacting Puerto Rico overall, as of the date of this 2017 Financial Report filing, all three sites have resumed operations and remediation activities continue. Given prior inoperability along with ongoing remediation of our sites, there could be certain product shortages in the coming months. Our commercial sales offices in Puerto Rico have been operational since October 9, 2017. 
 
 In 2017, we recorded $195 million in Cost of sales for inventory losses, overhead costs related to the period in which the plants could not operate, and incremental costs to date resulting from the hurricanes in Puerto Rico. We may record additional losses in future periods but we are unable to predict them with certainty at this time. As a result of dual source supply options and sufficient pre-hurricane inventory levels, we currently expect the impact on future revenues to be insignificant. We will continue to monitor the situation closely and make any updates to our outlook if warranted. 
 
 Product Manufacturing 
 
 We periodically encounter difficulties or delays in manufacturing, including due to legal or regulatory actions, such as warning letters, suspension of manufacturing or voluntary recall of a product. In February 2017, for example, we received a warning letter from the FDA communicating the FDA’s view that certain violations of current Good Manufacturing Practice regulations exist at Hospira’s manufacturing facility in McPherson, Kansas. We are undertaking corrective actions to address the concerns raised by the FDA. In January 2018, the FDA upgraded the status of Pfizer’s McPherson, Kansas manufacturing facility to VAI based on an October 2017 inspection. The change to VAI status will lift the compliance hold that the FDA placed on approval of pending applications, and is an important step toward resolving the issues cited in the February 2017 FDA warning letter. Within our Essential Health portfolio, we have been experiencing product shortages with some products. The product shortages are primarily for products from the legacy Hospira portfolio and are largely driven by capacity constraints and technical issues. Any continued product shortage interruption at this manufacturing facility could negatively impact our financial results, specifically in our SIP portfolio. In addition to the McPherson facility, we continue to remediate issues at other legacy Hospira facilities manufacturing sterile injectables within our Essential Health portfolio. We expect to make substantial progress on our remediation efforts during 2018. 
 Our 2017 Performance 
 
 Revenues–– 2017 
 
 Revenues in 2017 decrease d by $278 million , or 1% , compared to 2016 , which reflects a slight net operational decrease of $20 million , or less than 1%, and an unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of $259 million , or less than 1% . 
 Compared to 2016, total revenues for 2017 were unfavorably impacted by approximately $200 million as a result of 2017 having one less selling day in both U.S. and international markets. 
 The following graph illustrates the components of the decrease in revenues in 2017 : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 LOE generally pertains to period-over-period revenue impacts for products across our portfolios experiencing patent expirations or loss of regulatory exclusivity in certain developed markets. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 4 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following provides an analysis of the decrease in revenues in 2017 : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 52,824 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Operational growth/(decline): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Continued growth from key brands (a) and growth from Biosimilars (b) 
 
 
 
 2,810 
 
 
 
 
 Increase in Xtandi alliance revenues in the U.S. (September 2016 acquisition of Medivation) 
 
 
 
 450 
 
 
 
 
 Declines from Peri-LOE Products, Enbrel (driven by declines in most developed Europe markets), Viagra (IH) (in the U.S.), and our SIP and LEP portfolios, as well as a decline in Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13 (primarily in the U.S.) 
 
 
 
 (2,375 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Disposition-related operational impact––February 2017 sale of HIS (c) 
 
 
 
 (1,062 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Other operational factors, net 
 
 
 
 157 
 
 
 
 
 Operational decline, net 
 
 
 
 (20 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Operational revenues 
 
 
 
 52,804 
 
 
 
 
 Unfavorable impact of foreign exchange 
 
 
 
 (259 
 
 ) 
 
 
 2017 Revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 52,546 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 K ey brands include Ibrance and Eliquis (both globally), as well as Xeljanz and Lyrica (IH) (both primarily in the U.S.). 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 Growth in Biosimilars was primarily driven by Inflectra in the U.S. and developed Europe markets. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 In 2017, financial results include approximately one month of HIS domestic operations and approximately two months of HIS international operations, compared to 12 months of HIS global operations in 2016. 
 
 See the “Analysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income –– Revenues –– Overview” section below for more information, including a discussion of key drivers of our revenue performance. 
 Income from Continuing Operations Before Provision/(Benefit) for Taxes on Income–– 2017 
 The following provides an analysis of the increase in Income from continuing operations before provision/benefit) for taxes on income for 2017 : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Income from continuing operations before provision/(benefit) for taxes on income for the year ended December 31, 2016 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 8,351 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Unfavorable change in revenues 
 
 
 
 (278 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Favorable/(Unfavorable) changes: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Nonrecurrence of 2016 impairment on remeasurement of HIS net assets and lower loss on sale of HIS (a) 
 
 
 
 1,657 
 
 
 
 
 Lower Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs (b) 
 
 
 
 1,237 
 
 
 
 
 Lower Cost of sales (c) 
 
 
 
 1,089 
 
 
 
 
 Lower certain asset impairments (a) 
 
 
 
 1,052 
 
 
 
 
 Lower certain legal matters, net (a) 
 
 
 
 269 
 
 
 
 
 Higher dividend income (a) 
 
 
 
 256 
 
 
 
 
 Lower business and legal entity alignment costs (a) 
 
 
 
 190 
 
 
 
 
 Higher net gains on asset disposals (a) 
 
 
 
 172 
 
 
 
 
 Lower Selling, information and administrative expenses (d) 
 
 
 
 53 
 
 
 
 
 Higher Amortization of intangible assets (e) 
 
 
 
 (703 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Higher net losses on early retirement of debt (a) 
 
 
 
 (687 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Lower royalty-related income (a) 
 
 
 
 (406 
 
 ) 
 
 
 All other items, net 
 
 
 
 52 
 
 
 
 
 Income from continuing operations before provision/(benefit) for taxes on income for the year ended December 31, 2017 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 12,305 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 See the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 4. Other (Income)/Deductions—Net. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 See the “Costs and Expenses––Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives” section of this Financial Review. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 See the “Costs and Expenses––Cost of Sales” section of this Financial Review. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) 
 
 See the “Costs and Expenses––Selling, Informational and Administrative Expenses” section of this Financial Review. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (e) 
 
 See the “Costs and Expenses––Amortization of Intangible Assets” section of this Financial Review. 
 For information on our tax provision and effective tax rate see the “Provision/(Benefit) for Taxes on Income” section of this Financial Review and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 5A . Tax Matters: Taxes on Income from Continuing Operations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 5 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Our Operating Environment 
 
 Industry-Specific Challenges 
 
 Intellectual Property Rights and Collaboration/Licensing Rights 
 
 The loss, expiration or invalidation of intellectual property rights, patent litigation settlements with generic manufacturers and the expiration of co-promotion and licensing rights can have a significant adverse effect on our revenues. Many of our branded products have multiple patents that expire at varying dates, thereby strengthening our overall patent protection. However, once patent protection has expired or has been lost prior to the expiration date as a result of a legal challenge, we lose exclusivity on these products, and generic pharmaceutical manufacturers generally produce similar products and sell them for a lower price. The date at which generic competition commences may be different from the date that the patent or regulatory exclusivity expires. However, when generic competition does commence, the resulting price competition can substantially decrease our revenues for the impacted products, often in a very short period of time. Also, if one of our patents is found to be invalid by judicial, court or administrative proceedings, such as inter partes review, post-grant review, re-examination or opposition proceedings, before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, the European Patent Office, or other foreign counterparts, generic or competitive products could be introduced into the market resulting in the erosion of sales of our existing products. For example, several of the patents in our pneumococcal vaccine portfolio have been challenged in inter partes review and post-grant review proceedings in the U.S. The invalidation of these patents could potentially allow a competitor pneumococcal vaccine into the marketplace. 
 
 As a result of a patent litigation settlement, Teva launched a generic version of Viagra in the U.S. in December 2017. 
 
 We lost or expect to lose exclusivity for various other products in various markets over the next few years, including, among others, the expiration of the basic product patent for Lyrica in the U.S. in December 2018. Pfizer is currently pursuing a six-month patent-term extension for pediatric exclusivity for Lyrica in the U.S. with the FDA. 
 For additional information, see the “Recent Losses and Expected Losses of Product Exclusivity” section below. 
 
 Our biotechnology products, including BeneFIX, ReFacto, Xyntha, Bavencio, Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13 and Enbrel (we market Enbrel outside the U.S. and Canada), may face in the future, or already face, competition from biosimilars (also referred to as follow-on biologics). If competitors are able to obtain marketing approval for biosimilars referencing our biotechnology products, our biotechnology products may become subject to competition from these biosimilars, with attendant competitive pressure, and price reductions could follow. For example, Enbrel faces ongoing biosimilar competition in most developed Europe markets, which is expected to continue. The expiration or successful challenge of applicable patent rights could trigger this competition, assuming any relevant regulatory exclusivity period has expired. 
 
 We have lost exclusivity for a number of our products in certain markets and we have lost collaboration rights with respect to a number of our alliance products in certain markets, and we expect certain products to face significantly increased generic competition over the next few years. 
 
 Specifically: 
 
 Recent Losses and Expected Losses of Product Exclusivity 
 The following table provides information about certain of our products recently experiencing, or expected to experience in 2018 , patent expirations or loss of regulatory exclusivity in the U.S., Europe or Japan, showing, by product, the key dates or expected key dates, the markets impacted and the revenues associated with those products in those markets: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Product Revenues in Markets Impacted 
 
 
 Products 
 
 
 
 Key Dates (a) 
 
 
 
 Markets Impacted 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 
 
 Viagra (b) 
 
 
 
 June 2013 May 2014 December 2017 
 
 
 
 Major European markets Japan U.S. 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 850 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,217 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,338 
 
 
 
 
 Rapamune 
 
 
 
 January 2014 June 2015 
 
 
 
 U.S. Major European markets 
 
 
 
 90 
 
 
 
 
 
 115 
 
 
 
 
 
 129 
 
 
 
 
 Inspra (c) 
 
 
 
 March 2014 
 July 2015 
 
 
 
 Major European markets 
 Japan 
 
 
 
 87 
 
 
 
 
 
 97 
 
 
 
 
 
 118 
 
 
 
 
 Lyrica (d) 
 
 
 
 July 2014 
 December 2018 
 
 
 
 Major European markets 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 3,901 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,831 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,710 
 
 
 
 
 Zyvox (e) 
 
 
 
 August 2014 
 First half of 2015 
 January 2016 
 
 
 
 Japan 
 U.S. 
 Major European markets 
 
 
 
 103 
 
 
 
 
 
 235 
 
 
 
 
 
 644 
 
 
 
 
 Enbrel (f) 
 
 
 
 August 2015 
 September 2015 
 
 
 
 Major European markets 
 Japan 
 
 
 
 1,686 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,146 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,402 
 
 
 
 
 Relpax 
 
 
 
 December 2015 
 December 2016 
 
 
 
 Major European markets 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 176 
 
 
 
 
 
 263 
 
 
 
 
 
 295 
 
 
 
 
 Vfend 
 
 
 
 July 2016 
 January 2016 
 
 
 
 Major European markets 
 Japan 
 
 
 
 150 
 
 
 
 
 
 299 
 
 
 
 
 
 349 
 
 
 
 
 Tygacil 
 
 
 
 April 2016 
 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 45 
 
 
 
 
 
 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 110 
 
 
 
 
 Pristiq (g) 
 
 
 
 March 2017 
 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 133 
 
 
 
 
 
 578 
 
 
 
 
 
 553 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 Unless stated otherwise, “Key Dates” indicate patent-based expiration dates. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 6 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 As a result of a patent litigation settlement, Teva launched a generic version of Viagra in the U.S. in December 2017. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 Generic versions of Inspra became available in major European markets following the March 2014 expiry of regulatory exclusivity for Inspra in most major European markets, allowing generic companies to submit applications for marketing authorizations for their generic products. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) 
 
 Generic versions of Lyrica became available in major European markets following the July 2014 expiry of regulatory exclusivity for Lyrica in the EU, allowing generic companies to submit applications for marketing authorizations for their generic products. The basic product patent for Lyrica in the U.S. is expected to expire in December 2018. Pfizer is currently pursuing a six-month patent-term extension for pediatric exclusivity in the U.S. with the FDA. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (e) 
 
 Pursuant to terms of a settlement agreement, certain formulations of Zyvox became subject to generic competition in the U.S. in January 2015. Other formulations of Zyvox became subject to generic competition in the U.S. in the first half of 2015. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (f) 
 
 In January 2016, an etanercept biosimilar referencing Enbrel was approved by the European Commission. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (g) 
 
 As a result of a patent litigation settlement with several generic manufacturers, generic versions of Pristiq launched in the U.S. in March 2017. 
 
 Recent Losses of Collaboration Rights 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following table provides information about certain of our alliance revenue products that have experienced losses of collaboration rights, showing, by product, the date of the loss of the collaboration rights, the markets impacted and the alliance revenues associated with those products in those markets: 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Alliance Revenues in 
 Markets Impacted 
 
 
 Products 
 
 
 
 Date of Loss of 
 Collaboration Rights 
 
 
 
 Markets Impacted 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 
 
 Spiriva (a) 
 
 
 
 April 2014 (U.S.), between 2012 and 2016 (Japan, certain European countries, Australia, Canada and South Korea) 
 
 
 
 U.S., Japan, certain European countries, Australia, Canada and South Korea 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 6 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 27 
 
 
 
 
 Rebif (b) 
 
 
 
 End of 2015 
 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 13 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 371 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 Our collaboration with Boehringer Ingelheim for Spiriva expired on a country-by-country basis between 2012 and 2016. On April 29, 2014, our alliance in the U.S. came to an end. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 Our collaboration agreement with EMD Serono Inc. to co-promote Rebif in the U.S. expired at the end of 2015. Patent litigation brought by Biogen Idec MA Inc. against EMD Serono Inc. and Pfizer is pending in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey, and EMD Serono Inc. has acknowledged that they are obligated to satisfy any award of damages. 
 
 In addition, we expect to lose exclusivity for various other products in various markets over the next few years. For additional information, see the “Patents and Other Intellectual Property Rights” section in Part I, ITEM 1, “Business”, of our 2017 Form 10-K. 
 Our financial results in 2017 reflect the impact of the loss of exclusivity of various products (and the expiration of certain alliance product contract rights) discussed above. 
 We will continue to aggressively defend our patent rights whenever we deem appropriate. For more detailed information about our significant products, see the discussion in the “Revenues––Major Products” and “Revenues––Selected Product Discussion” sections of this Financial Review. For a discussion of certain recent developments with respect to patent litigation, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 17A1. Commitments and Contingencies: Legal Proceedings –– Patent Litigation . 
 
 Regulatory Environment/Pricing and Access––U.S. Healthcare Legislation 
 
 In March 2010, the ACA was enacted in the U.S. For additional information, see the “Government Regulation and Price Constraints” section in Part I, ITEM 1, “Business”, of our 2017 Form 10-K. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 We recorded the following amounts as a result of the U.S. Healthcare Legislation: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 
 
 Reduction to Revenues , related to the Medicare “coverage gap” discount provision 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 450 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 410 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 399 
 
 
 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses , related to the fee payable to the federal government (which is not deductible for U.S. income tax purposes), based on our prior-calendar-year share relative to other companies of branded prescription drug sales to specified government programs 
 
 
 
 307 
 
 
 
 
 
 312 
 
 
 
 
 
 251 
 
 
 
 Regulatory Environment/Pricing and Access––Government and Other Payer Group Pressures 
 
 The pricing of medicines by pharmaceutical manufacturers and the cost of healthcare, which includes medicines, medical services and hospital services, continues to be important to payors, governments, patients, and other stakeholders. We believe that medicines are amongst the most powerful tool for patients in curing, treating and preventing illness and disability, and that all patients should have appropriate access to the medicines their doctors prescribe. We consider a number of factors when determining a medicine’s price, including, for example, its impact on patients and their disease, other available treatments, the medicine’s potential to reduce other healthcare costs (such as hospital stays), and affordability. Within the U.S., in particular, we may also engage with patients, doctors and healthcare plans regarding their views. We then negotiate with insurers, including PBMs and MCOs, often providing significant discounts to them from the initial price. The price that patients pay for the medicines their physicians prescribe is ultimately set by healthcare providers and insurers. On average, insurers cover a much lower share of prescription drug costs than medical services, which results in a greater proportion of out-of-pocket costs being passed on to patients for medicines, thereby making them less accessible and affordable. We will continue to work with insurance providers, governments and others to improve access to today’s innovative treatments. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 7 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Governments, MCOs and other payer groups continue to seek increasing discounts on our products through a variety of means, such as leveraging their purchasing power, implementing price controls, and demanding price cuts (directly or by rebate actions). In Europe, Japan, China, Canada, South Korea and some other international markets, governments provide healthcare at low-to-zero direct cost to consumers at the point of care and have significant power as large single payers to regulate pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system, particularly under recent global economic pressures. In the U.S., government action to reduce federal spending on entitlement programs including Medicare and Medicaid may affect payment for our products or services provided using our products. Any significant spending reductions or cost controls affecting Medicare, Medicaid or other publicly funded or subsidized health programs that may be implemented could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Significant Medicare reductions could also result if Congress proceeds with certain proposals to convert the Medicare fee-for-service program into a premium support program, or Congress chooses to implement the recommendations made annually by the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission, which are primarily intended to extend the fiscal solvency of the Medicare program. 
 Consolidation among MCOs has increased the negotiating power of MCOs and other private insurers. Private third-party insurers, as well as governments, increasingly employ formularies to control costs by negotiating discounted prices in exchange for formulary inclusion. Failure to obtain or maintain timely or adequate pricing or formulary placement for our products or obtaining such pricing or placement at unfavorable pricing could adversely impact revenue. 
 
 Efforts by government officials or legislators to implement measures to regulate prices or payments for pharmaceutical products, including legislation on drug importation, could adversely affect our business if implemented. Recently, there has been considerable public and government scrutiny of pharmaceutical pricing and proposals to address the perceived high cost of pharmaceuticals. There have also been recent state legislative efforts to address drug costs, which generally have focused on increasing transparency around drug costs or limiting drug prices. Recent legislation enacted includes, for example, a 2017 Maryland law that prohibits a generic drug manufacturer or wholesale distributor from engaging in price gouging in the sale of certain off-patent or generic drugs, and a 2017 California law that requires manufacturers to provide advanced notification of price increases to certain purchasers and report specified drug pricing information to the state. Certain state legislation, like the Maryland law, has been subject to legal challenges. 
 
 Adoption of new legislation at the federal or state level could further affect demand for, or pricing of, our products. We believe medicines are the most efficient and effective use of healthcare dollars based on the value they deliver to the overall healthcare system. We will continue to work with law makers and advocate for solutions that effectively improve patient health outcomes, lower costs to the healthcare system, and ensure access to medicines within an efficient and affordable healthcare system. 
 
 We face uncertainties due to federal legislative and administrative efforts to repeal, substantially modify or invalidate some or all of the provisions of the ACA. The likelihood of such a repeal currently appears low given the failure of the Senate’s multiple attempts to repeal various combinations of ACA provisions. In October 2017, the President signed an Executive Order directing federal agencies to look for ways to authorize more health plans that could be less expensive because the plans would not have to meet all of the ACA’s coverage requirements, and announced that his administration will withhold the cost-sharing subsidies paid to health insurance exchange plans serving low-income enrollees. In December 2017, the comprehensive tax reform package signed into law, the TCJA (see the “The Global Economic Environment” section below for more information), includes a provision that effectively repealed the ACA’s individual mandate by removing the penalties. These and similar actions by the administration are widely expected to lead to fewer Americans having comprehensive ACA-compliant health insurance, even in the absence of a legislative repeal. However, the revenues generated for Pfizer by the health insurance exchanges under the ACA are minor, so the impact of the recent administration actions is expected to be limited. There is no assurance that any future replacement, modification or repeal of the ACA will not adversely affect our business and financial results, particularly if the legislation reduces incentives for employer-sponsored insurance coverage. We also may face uncertainties if our industry is looked to for savings to fund certain legislation, such as lifting the debt ceiling. One recent example is the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018, which increased the discount we pay in the Medicare Part D coverage gap from 50% to 70%, which will modestly reduce our future Medicare Part D revenues. 
 
 The potential for additional pricing and access pressures in the commercial sector continues to be significant. Some employers, seeking to avoid the tax on high-cost health insurance in the ACA to be imposed in 2020, are already scaling back healthcare benefits and an increasing number are implementing high deductible benefit designs. This is a trend that is likely to continue. Private third-party payers, such as health plans, increasingly challenge pharmaceutical product pricing, which could result in lower prices, lower reimbursement rates and a reduction in demand for our products. Pricing pressures for our products may occur as a result of highly competitive insurance markets. Healthcare provider purchasers, directly or through group purchasing organizations, are seeking enhanced discounts or implementing more rigorous bidding or purchasing review processes. 
 
 Overall, there is increasing pressure on U.S. providers to deliver healthcare at a lower cost and to ensure that those expenditures deliver demonstrated value in terms of health outcomes. Longer term, we are seeing a shift in focus away from fee-for-service payments towards outcomes-based payments and risk-sharing arrangements that reward providers for cost reductions. These new payment models can, at times, lead to lower prices for, and restricted access to, new medicines. At the same time, these models can also expand utilization by encouraging physicians to screen, diagnose and focus on outcomes. 
 
 Outside the U.S., governments, including the different EU Member States, may use a variety of cost-containment measures for our pharmaceutical products, including price cuts, mandatory rebates, health technology assessments, and international reference pricing (i.e., the practice of a country linking its regulated medicine prices to those of other countries). This international patchwork of price regulation and differing economic conditions and assessments of value across countries has led to different prices in different countries, varying health outcomes and some third-party trade in our products between countries. 
 
 In particular, international reference pricing adds to the regional impact of price cuts in individual countries and can hinder patient access and innovation. Price variations, exacerbated by international reference pricing systems, also have resulted from exchange rate fluctuations. The 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 8 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 downward pricing pressure resulting from this dynamic can be expected to continue as a result of reforms to international reference pricing policies and measures targeting pharmaceuticals in some European countries. 
 
 In addition, several important multilateral organizations, such as the United Nations (UN) and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), are increasing scrutiny of international pharmaceutical pricing through issuing reports and policy recommendations (e.g., 2016 UN High Level Panel Report on Access to Medicines and 2017 OECD Report on New Health Technologies –– Managing Access, Value and Sustainability ). Government adoption of these recommendations may lead to additional pricing pressures. 
 
 In response to the evolving U.S. and global healthcare spending landscape, we are continuing to work with health authorities, health technology assessment and quality measurement bodies and major U.S. payers throughout the product-development process to better understand how these entities value our compounds and products. Further, we are seeking to develop stronger internal capabilities focused on demonstrating the value of the medicines that we discover or develop, register and manufacture, by recognizing patterns of usage of our medicines and competitor medicines along with patterns of healthcare costs. 
 
 Regulatory Environment––Pipeline Productivity 
 
 The discovery and development of safe, effective new products, as well as the development of additional uses for existing products, are necessary for the continued strength of our businesses. We have encountered increasing regulatory scrutiny of drug safety and efficacy, even as we continue to gather safety and other data on our products, before and after the products have been launched. Our product lines must be replenished over time in order to offset revenue losses when products lose their market exclusivity, as well as to provide for earnings growth. We devote considerable resources to R&D activities. These activities involve a high degree of risk and cost and may take many years, and with respect to any specific R&D project, there can be no assurance that the development of any particular product candidate or new indication for an in-line product will achieve the desired clinical endpoints and safety profile, will be approved by regulators or will be successful commercially. 
 
 During the development of a product, we conduct clinical trials to provide data on the drug’s safety and efficacy to support the evaluation of its overall benefit-risk profile for a particular patient population. In addition, after a product has been approved and launched, we continue to monitor its safety as long as it is available to patients, and post-marketing trials may be conducted, including trials requested by regulators and trials that we do voluntarily to gain additional medical knowledge. For the entire life of the product, we collect safety data and report potential problems to the FDA and other regulatory authorities. The FDA and regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions may evaluate potential safety concerns related to a product or a class of products and take regulatory actions in response, such as updating a product’s labeling, restricting the use of a product, communicating new safety information to the public, or, in rare cases, removing a product from the market. 
 
 Competition 
 
 Many of our prescription pharmaceutical products face competition in the form of branded or generic drugs or biosimilars that treat similar diseases or indications. For additional information, see the “Competition” section in Part I, ITEM 1, “Business”, of our 2017 Form 10-K. 
 The Global Economic Environment 
 
 In addition to the industry-specific factors discussed above, we, like other businesses, are exposed to the economic cycle, which impacts our biopharmaceutical operations globally. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Governments, corporations, and insurance companies, which provide insurance benefits to patients, have implemented increases in cost-sharing and restrictions on access to medicines, potentially causing patients to switch to generic or biosimilar products, delay treatments, skip doses or use less effective treatments. Government financing pressures can lead to negative pricing pressure in various markets where governments take an active role in setting prices, access criteria (e.g., through public or private health technology assessments), or other means of cost control. Examples include Europe, Japan, China, Canada, South Korea and a number of other international markets. The U.S. continues to maintain competitive insurance markets, but has also seen significant increases in patient cost-sharing and growing government influence as government programs continue to grow as a source of coverage. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 We continue to monitor developments regarding government and government agency receivables in several European markets, including Greece, where economic conditions remain challenging and uncertain. For further information about our Accounts Receivable , see the “Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources” section of this Financial Review. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Significant portions of our revenues, costs and expenses, as well as our substantial international net assets, are exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. We seek to manage our foreign exchange risk in part through operational means, including managing same-currency revenues in relation to same-currency costs and same-currency assets in relation to same-currency liabilities. Depending on market conditions, foreign exchange risk also is managed through the use of derivative financial instruments and foreign currency debt. As we operate in multiple foreign currencies, including the euro, the Japanese yen, the Chinese renminbi, the U.K. pound, the Canadian dollar and approximately 100 other currencies, changes in those currencies relative to the U.S. dollar will impact our revenues and expenses. If the U.S. dollar were to weaken against another currency, assuming all other variables remained constant, our revenues would increase, having a positive impact on earnings, and our overall expenses would increase, having a negative impact on earnings. Conversely, if the U.S. dollar were to strengthen against another currency, assuming all other variables remained constant, our revenues would decrease, having a negative impact on earnings, and our overall expenses would decrease, having a positive impact on earnings. Therefore, significant changes in foreign exchange rates can impact our results and our financial guidance. 
 The impact of possible currency devaluations in countries experiencing high inflation rates or significant exchange fluctuations, including Venezuela, can impact our results and financial guidance. In the fourth quarter of 2015, we recorded a foreign currency loss of $806 million and an inventory impairment charge of $72 million related to conditions in Venezuela. For further information about our exposure to foreign currency risk, see the “Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources” and the “Our Financial Guidance for 2018 ” sections 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 9 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 of this Financial Review. For further information about our foreign currency losses related to Venezuela, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 4 . Other (Income)/Deductions –– Net. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 In June 2016, the U.K. electorate voted in a referendum to leave the EU, which is commonly referred to as “Brexit”. In March 2017, the U.K. government formally notified the European Council of its intention to leave the EU after it triggered Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty to begin the two-year negotiation process establishing the terms of the exit and outlining the future relationship between the U.K. and the EU. Formal negotiations officially started in June 2017. This process continues to be highly complex and the end result of these negotiations may pose certain implications to our research, commercial and general business operations in the U.K. and the EU, including the approval and supply of our products. 
 We generated approximately 2% of our worldwide revenues from the U.K. in 2017 . However, except for the foreign currency exchange impact from the weakening U.K. pound relative to the U.S. dollar to date, there are no other immediate-term impacts to our business as there has not yet been a formal change in the relationship between the U.K. and the EU. In addition, because of the significant uncertainties associated with the negotiation process, any potential long-term impacts are not currently determinable. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 On December 22, 2017, the U.S. enacted significant changes to U.S. tax law following the passage and signing of the TCJA. The TCJA is complex and significantly changes the U.S. corporate income tax system by, among other things, reducing the Federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, transitioning U.S. international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a territorial tax system and imposing a repatriation tax on deemed repatriated accumulated post-1986 earnings of foreign subsidiaries. Given the significant changes resulting from and complexities associated with the TCJA, the estimated financial impacts for 2017 as well as the estimated impact on 2018 financial guidance for the effective tax rate on adjusted income are provisional and subject to further analysis, interpretation and clarification of the TCJA, which could result in changes to these estimates during 2018. For additional information, see the “Our Financial Guidance for 2018 ”, “Provision/(Benefit) for Taxes on Income” and “Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources” sections of this Financial Review and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 5A . Tax Matters: Taxes on Income from Continuing Operations. 
 
 Pfizer maintains a strong financial position while operating in a complex global environment. Due to our significant operating cash flows, financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we continue to believe that we have, and will maintain, the ability to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future. Our long-term debt is rated high quality by both S&P and Moody’s. As market conditions change, we continue to monitor our liquidity position. We have taken and will continue to take a conservative approach to our financial investments. Both short-term and long-term investments consist primarily of high-quality, highly liquid, well-diversified, available-for-sale debt securities. For further discussion of our financial condition and credit ratings, see the “Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources” section of this Financial Review. 
 
 These and other industry-wide factors that may affect our businesses should be considered along with information presented in the “Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results” section of this Financial Review and in Part I, ITEM 1A, “Risk Factors,” of our 2017 Form 10-K. 
 Our Strategy 
 
 We believe that our medicines provide significant value for both healthcare providers and patients, not only from the improved treatment of diseases but also from a reduction in other healthcare costs, such as emergency room or hospitalization costs, as well as improvements in health, wellness and productivity. We continue to actively engage in dialogues about the value of our medicines and how we can best work with patients, physicians and payers to prevent and treat disease and improve outcomes. We continue to work within the current legal and pricing structures, as well as continue to review our pricing arrangements and contracting methods with payers, to maximize patient access and minimize any adverse impact on our revenues. We remain firmly committed to fulfilling our company’s purpose of innovating to bring therapies to patients that extend and significantly improve their lives. By doing so, we expect to create value for the patients we serve and for our shareholders. 
 
 Commercial Operations 
 
 We manage our commercial operations through two distinct business segments: Pfizer Innovative Health (IH) and Pfizer Essential Health (EH). The IH and EH operating segments are each led by a single manager. Each operating segment has responsibility for its commercial activities and for certain IPR&D projects for new investigational products and additional indications for in-line products that generally have achieved proof-of-concept. Each business has a geographic footprint across developed and emerging markets. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 10 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Some additional information about our business segments as of the date of the filing of this 2017 Financial Report follows: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ● 
 
 IH focuses on developing and commercializing novel, value-creating medicines and vaccines that significantly improve patients’ lives, as well as products for consumer healthcare. 
 
 Key therapeutic areas include internal medicine, vaccines, oncology, inflammation & immunology, rare disease and consumer healthcare. 
 
 
 
 ● 
 
 EH includes legacy brands that have lost or will soon lose market exclusivity in both developed and emerging markets, branded generics, generic sterile injectable products, biosimilars, select branded products including anti-infectives and, through February 2, 2017, HIS. EH also includes an R&D organization, as well as our contract manufacturing business. 
 
 
 ● 
 
 We expect that the IH biopharmaceutical portfolio of innovative, largely patent-protected, in-line and newly launched products will be sustained by ongoing investments to develop promising assets and targeted business development in areas of focus to help ensure a pipeline of highly-differentiated product candidates in areas of unmet medical need. The assets managed by IH are science-driven, highly differentiated and generally require a high-level of engagement with healthcare providers and consumers. 
 
 
 
 ● 
 
 EH is expected to generate strong consistent cash flow by providing patients around the world with access to effective, lower-cost, high-value treatments. EH leverages our biologic development, regulatory and manufacturing expertise to seek to advance its biosimilar development portfolio. Additionally, EH leverages capabilities in formulation development and manufacturing expertise to help advance its generic sterile injectables portfolio. EH may also engage in targeted business development to further enable its commercial strategies. 
 
 
 ● 
 
 IH will have continued focus on R&D productivity and pipeline strength while maximizing the value of our recently launched brands and in-line portfolio. Our acquisitions of Anacor and Medivation expanded our pipeline in the high priority therapeutic areas of inflammation and immunology and oncology. 
 
 
 
 ● 
 
 For EH, we continue to invest in growth drivers and manage the portfolio to extract additional value while seeking opportunities for operating efficiencies. This strategy includes active management of our portfolio; maximizing growth of core product segments; acquisitions to strengthen core areas of our portfolio further, such as our recent acquisition of AstraZeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business; and divestitures to increase focus on our core strengths. In line with this strategy, on February 3, 2017, we completed the sale of Pfizer’s global infusion systems net assets, representing the infusion systems net assets that we acquired as part of the Hospira transaction, HIS, to ICU Medical. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Leading brands include: - Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13 - Xeljanz - Eliquis - Lyrica (U.S., Japan and certain other markets) - Enbre l (outside the U.S. and Canada) - Ibrance - Xtandi - Several OTC consumer healthcare products (e.g., Advil and Centrum ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Leading brands include: 
 - Lipitor 
 - Premarin family 
 - Norvasc 
 - Lyrica (Europe, Russia, Turkey, Israel and Central Asia countries) 
 - Celebrex 
 - Viagra * 
 - Inflectra/Remsima 
 - Several sterile injectable products 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 Viagra lost exclusivity in the U.S. in December 2017. Beginning in the first quarter of 2018, revenues for Viagra in the U.S. and Canada, which were reported in IH through December 2017, will be reported in EH (which reported all other Viagra revenues excluding the U.S. and Canada through 2017). Therefore, total Viagra worldwide revenues will be reported in EH from 2018 forward. 
 For additional information about the 2017 performance of each of our operating segments, see the “Analysis of Operating Segment Information” section of this Financial Review. 
 Description of Research and Development Operations 
 
 Innovation is critical to the success of our company, and drug discovery and development is time-consuming, expensive and unpredictable. Our goal is to discover, develop and bring to market innovative products that address major unmet medical needs. Our R&D priorities include: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 delivering a pipeline of differentiated therapies and vaccines with the greatest medical and commercial potential; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 advancing our capabilities that can position Pfizer for long-term leadership; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 creating new models for biomedical collaboration that will expedite the pace of innovation and productivity. 
 To that end, our R&D primarily focuses on: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Biosimilars; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Inflammation and Immunology; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Metabolic Disease and Cardiovascular Risks; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Oncology; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Rare Diseases; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Vaccines. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 11 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 In January 2018, we announced our decision to end internal neuroscience discovery and early development efforts and re-allocate funding to other areas where we have stronger scientific leadership. We plan to create a dedicated neuroscience venture fund to support continued efforts to advance the field. The development of tanezumab and potential treatments for rare neuromuscular disorders is not impacted by this decision. 
 
 We continue to strengthen our global R&D organization and pursue strategies intended to improve innovation and overall productivity in R&D to achieve a sustainable pipeline that will deliver value in the near term and over time. Our R&D spending is conducted through a number of matrix organizations: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Research Units within our WRD organization are generally responsible for research and early-stage development assets for our IH business (assets that have not yet achieved proof-of-concept). Our Research Units are organized by therapeutic area to enhance flexibility, cohesiveness and focus. Because of our structure, we can rapidly redeploy resources within a Research Unit between various projects as necessary because the workforce shares similar skills, expertise and/or focus. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Our R&D organization within the EH business supports the large base of EH products and is expected to develop potential new sterile injectable drugs and therapeutic solutions, as well as biosimilars. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Our GPD organization is a unified center for late-stage development for our innovative products and is generally responsible for the operational execution of clinical development of assets that are in clinical trials for our WRD and Innovative portfolios. GPD is expected to enable more efficient and effective development and enhance our ability to accelerate and progress assets through our pipeline. GPD combines certain previously separate development-related functions from the IH business and the WRD organization to achieve a development capability that is expected to deliver high-quality, efficient, and well-executed clinical programs by enabling greater speed, greater cost efficiencies, and reduced complexity across our development portfolio. GPD also provides technical support and other services to Pfizer R&D projects. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Our science-based and other platform-services organizations, where a significant portion of our R&D spending occurs, provide technical expertise and other services to the various R&D projects, and are organized into science-based functions (which are part of our WRD organization), such as Pharmaceutical Sciences, Medicinal Chemistry, Regulatory and Drug Safety, and non-science-based functions, such as Facilities, Business Technology and Finance. As a result, within each of these functions, we are able to migrate resources among projects, candidates and/or targets in any therapeutic area and in most phases of development, allowing us to react quickly in response to evolving needs. 
 
 We manage R&D operations on a total-company basis through our matrix organizations described above. Specifically, a single committee with representation from the R&D groups and the IH commercial organization is accountable for aligning resources among all of our WRD, GPD and IH R&D projects and for seeking to ensure optimal capital allocation across the Innovative R&D portfolio. We believe that this approach also serves to maximize accountability and flexibility. Our EH R&D organization manages its resources separately from the WRD and GPD organizations. 
 Generally, we do not disaggregate total R&D expense by development phase or by therapeutic area since, as described above, we do not manage a significant portion of our R&D operations by development phase or by therapeutic area. Further, as we are able to adjust a significant portion of our spending quickly, as conditions change, we believe that any prior-period information about R&D expense by development phase or by therapeutic area would not necessarily be representative of future spending. 
 While a significant portion of R&D is done internally, we continue to seek out promising chemical and biological lead molecules and innovative technologies developed by third parties to incorporate into our discovery and development processes or projects, as well as our product lines, by entering into collaborations, alliance and license agreements with other companies, as well as leveraging acquisitions and equity- or debt-based investments. These agreements enable us to co-develop, license or acquire promising compounds, technologies or capabilities. We also enter into agreements pursuant to which a third party agrees to fund a portion of the development costs of one of our pipeline products in exchange for rights to receive potential milestone payments, revenue sharing payments, profit sharing payments and/or royalties. Collaboration, alliance, license and funding agreements and equity- or debt-based investments allow us to share risk and cost and to access external scientific and technological expertise, and enable us to advance our own products as well as in-licensed or acquired products. 
 
 For additional information about R&D by operating segment, see the “Analysis of Operating Segment Information” section of this Financial Review. For additional information about our pending new drug applications and supplemental filings, see the “Analysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income––Product Developments––Biopharmaceutical” section of this Financial Review. For additional information about recent transactions and strategic investments that we believe have the potential to advance our pipeline, see the “Our Strategy––Our Business Development Initiatives” section of this Financial Review. 
 Intellectual Property Rights 
 We continue to aggressively defend our patent rights against increasingly aggressive infringement whenever appropriate, and we will continue to support efforts that strengthen worldwide recognition of patent rights while taking necessary steps to ensure appropriate patient access. In addition, we will continue to employ innovative approaches designed to prevent counterfeit pharmaceuticals from entering the supply chain and to achieve greater control over the distribution of our products, and we will continue to participate in the generics market for our products, whenever appropriate, once they lose exclusivity. Also, the pursuit of valid business opportunities may require us to challenge intellectual property rights held by other companies that we believe were improperly granted. Such challenges may include negotiation and litigation, which may not be successful. For additional information about our current efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights and certain other patent proceedings, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 17A1. Commitments and Contingencies: Legal Proceedings –– Patent Litigation. For information on risks related to patent protection and intellectual property claims by third parties, see "Risks Related to Intellectual Property" in Part I, ITEM 1A, “Risk Factors” in our 2017 Form 10-K. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 12 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Capital Allocation and Expense Management 
 We seek to maintain a strong balance sheet and robust liquidity so that we continue to have the financial resources necessary to take advantage of prudent commercial, research and business development opportunities and to directly enhance shareholder value through share repurchases and dividends. For additional information about our financial condition, liquidity, capital resources, share repurchases (including accelerated share repurchases) and dividends, see the “Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources” section of this Financial Review. For additional information about our recent business development activities, see the “Our Strategy––Our Business Development Initiatives” section of this Financial Review. 
 In December 2017 , our Board of Directors declared a first-quarter 2018 dividend of $0.34 per share, an increase from the $0.32 per-share quarterly dividend paid during 2017 . For additional information, see the “Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources” section of this Financial Review and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 12. Equity. 
 
 We remain focused on achieving an appropriate cost structure for the Company. For additional information about our cost-reduction and productivity initiatives, see the “Costs and Expenses––Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives” section of this Financial Review and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 3 . Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives. 
 
 Increasing Investment in the U.S. ––After evaluating the expected positive net impact the TCJA will have on us, we have decided to take several actions: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Over the next five years, we plan to invest approximately $5.0 billion in capital projects in the U.S., including the strengthening of our manufacturing presence in the U.S. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 In the fourth quarter of 2017, we made a $200 million charitable contribution to the Pfizer Foundation, an organization that provides grant and investment funding to support organizations and social entrepreneurs in an effort to improve healthcare delivery. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 We made a $500 million voluntary contribution to our U.S. pension plan in February 2018. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 We have also allocated approximately $100 million for a special, one-time bonus to be paid to all non-executive Pfizer colleagues that is expected to be paid in the first quarter of 2018. 
 
 Our Business Development Initiatives 
 We are committed to capitalizing on growth opportunities by advancing our own pipeline and maximizing the value of our in-line products, as well as through various forms of business development, which can include alliances, licenses, joint ventures, collaborations, equity- or debt-based investments, dispositions, mergers and acquisitions. We view our business development activity as an enabler of our strategies, and we seek to generate earnings growth and enhance shareholder value by pursuing a disciplined, strategic and financial approach to evaluating business development opportunities. We continue to evaluate business development transactions that have the potential to strengthen one or both of our businesses and their capabilities, such as our acquisitions of Hospira, Medivation, Anacor and AstraZeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business, as well as collaborations, and alliance and license agreements with other companies, including our collaborations with Cellectis, OPKO and Merck KGaA. We assess our businesses, assets and scientific capabilities/portfolio as part of our regular, ongoing portfolio review process and also continue to consider business development activities that will advance our businesses. In October 2017, we announced that we are reviewing strategic alternatives for our Consumer Healthcare business. A range of options will be considered, including a full or partial separation of the Consumer Healthcare business from Pfizer through a spin-off, sale or other transaction, and we may ultimately determine to retain the business. We expect that any decision regarding strategic alternatives for Consumer Healthcare would be made during 2018. For additional information on our business development activities, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 2. Acquisitions, Sale of Hospira Infusion Systems Net Assets, Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements, Equity-Method Investments and Cost-Method Investment . 
 The more significant recent transactions and events are described below: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Sale of Hospira Infusion Systems Net Assets to ICU Medical, Inc. (EH) ––On February 3, 2017, we completed the sale of our global infusion systems net assets, HIS, to ICU Medical. In connection with this transaction, we recognized pre-tax losses of approximately $55 million in 2017 in Other (income)/deductions––net, representing adjustments to amounts previously recorded in 2016 to write down the HIS net assets to fair value less costs to sell. We may record additional adjustments to the loss on the sale of HIS net assets in future periods, pending final working capital adjustments, among other agreement provisions, which we do not expect to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Acquisition of AstraZeneca’s Small Molecule Anti-Infectives Business (EH) ––On December 22, 2016, which falls in the first fiscal quarter of 2017 for our international operations, we acquired the development and commercialization rights to AstraZeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business, primarily outside the U.S. The total fair value of the consideration transferred for this business was approximately $555 million in cash plus the fair value of contingent consideration of $490 million . 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Acquisition of Medivation, Inc. (IH) ––On September 28, 2016, we acquired Medivation for $81.50 per share. The total fair value of consideration transferred for Medivation was approximately $14.3 billion in cash ( $13.9 billion , net of cash acquired). Medivation’s portfolio includes Xtandi (enzalutamide), an androgen receptor inhibitor that blocks multiple steps in the androgen receptor signaling pathway within tumor cells. Xtandi is being developed and commercialized through a collaboration with Astellas. Astellas has exclusive commercialization rights for Xtandi outside the U.S. In addition, Medivation has a development-stage oncology asset in its pipeline, talazoparib, which is currently in a Phase 3 study for the treatment of BRCA-mutated breast cancer. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Acquisition of Bamboo Therapeutics, Inc. (IH) ––On August 1, 2016, we acquired all the remaining equity in Bamboo, a privately-held biotechnology company, focused on developing gene therapies for the potential treatment of patients with certain rare diseases relating to neuromuscular conditions and those affecting the central nervous system, for $150 million , plus potential milestone payments of up to $495 million contingent upon the progression of key assets through development, regulatory approval and commercialization. We previously purchased a minority stake in Bamboo in the first quarter of 2016 for a payment of approximately $43 million . This acquisition provides us 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 13 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 with several clinical and pre-clinical assets that complement our rare disease portfolio, an advanced recombinant AAV vector design and production technology, and a fully functional Phase I/II gene therapy manufacturing facility. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Acquisition of Anacor Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (IH) ––On June 24, 2016, we acquired Anacor for $99.25 per share. The total fair value of consideration transferred for Anacor was approximately $4.9 billion in cash ( $4.5 billion net of cash acquired) plus $698 million debt assumed. Anacor’s crisaborole, a non-steroidal topical PDE-4 inhibitor with anti-inflammatory properties, was approved by the FDA on December 14, 2016 under the trade name, Eucrisa, for the treatment of mild-to-moderate atopic dermatitis in patients two years of age and older, commonly referred to as a type of eczema. Anacor also holds the rights to Kerydin, a topical treatment for onychomycosis (toenail fungus) that is distributed and commercialized by Sandoz in the U.S. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Research and Development Arrangement with NovaQuest Co-Investment Fund II, L.P. ––On November 1, 2016, we announced the discontinuation of the global clinical development program for bococizumab. During December 2016, $31.3 million was refunded to NovaQuest representing amounts NovaQuest prepaid for development costs (under the May 2016 agreement described below) that were not used for program expenses due to the discontinuation of the development program. No additional payments have been or are expected to be received from or paid to NovaQuest under this agreement, which was effectively terminated on November 18, 2016. 
 In May 2016, our agreement with NovaQuest became effective, under which NovaQuest agreed to fund up to $250 million in development costs related to certain Phase III clinical trials of Pfizer’s bococizumab compound and Pfizer agreed to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop and obtain regulatory approvals for such compound. NovaQuest’s development funding was expected to cover up to 40% of the development costs and was to be received over five quarters during 2016 and 2017. As there was a substantive and genuine transfer of risk to NovaQuest, the development funding applicable to program expenses during 2016 was recognized as an obligation to perform contractual services and therefore has been recognized as a reduction of Research and development expenses as incurred. The reduction to Research and development expenses for 2016 totaled $180.3 million . 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Research and Development Arrangement with NovaQuest Co-Investment Fund V, L.P. ––In April 2016, Pfizer entered into an agreement with NovaQuest under which NovaQuest will fund up to $200 million in development costs related to certain Phase III clinical trials of Pfizer’s rivipansel compound and Pfizer will use commercially reasonable efforts to develop and obtain regulatory approvals for such compound. NovaQuest’s development funding is expected to cover up to 100% of the development costs and will be received over approximately 12 quarters from 2016 to 2019. As there is a substantive and genuine transfer of risk to NovaQuest, the development funding is recognized by us as an obligation to perform contractual services and therefore is a reduction of Research and development expenses as incurred. The reduction to Research and development expenses totaled $72.1 million for 2017 and $46.6 million for 2016. Following potential regulatory approval, NovaQuest will be eligible to receive a combination of fixed milestone payments of up to approximately $267 million in total, based on achievement of first commercial sale and certain levels of cumulative net sales as well as royalties on rivipansel net sales over approximately eight years. Fixed sales-based milestone payments will be recorded as intangible assets and amortized to Amortization of intangible assets over the estimated commercial life of the rivipansel product and royalties on net sales will be recorded as Cost of sales when incurred. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Research and Development Arrangement with RPI Finance Trust ––In January 2016, Pfizer entered into an agreement with RPI, a subsidiary of Royalty Pharma, under which RPI will fund up to $300 million in development costs related to certain Phase III clinical trials of Pfizer’s Ibrance (palbociclib) product primarily for adjuvant treatment of hormone receptor positive early breast cancer (the Indication). RPI’s development funding is expected to cover up to 100% of the costs primarily for the applicable clinical trials through 2021. As there is a substantive and genuine transfer of risk to RPI, the development funding is recognized by us as an obligation to perform contractual services and therefore is a reduction of Research and development expenses as incurred. The reduction to Research and development expenses totaled $75.6 million for 2017 and $44.9 million for 2016. If successful and upon approval of Ibrance in the U.S. or certain major markets in the EU for the Indication based on the applicable clinical trials, RPI will be eligible to receive a combination of approval-based fixed milestone payments of up to $250 million dependent upon results of the clinical trials and royalties on certain Ibrance sales over approximately seven years. Fixed milestone payments due upon approval will be recorded as intangible assets and amortized to Amortization of intangible assets over the estimated commercial life of the Ibrance product and sales-based royalties will be recorded as Cost of sales when incurred. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Acquisition of Hospira (EH) ––On September 3, 2015, we acquired Hospira, a leading provider of sterile injectable drugs and infusion technologies as well as a provider of biosimilars, for approximately $16.1 billion in cash ( $15.7 billion , net of cash acquired). 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Acquisition of a Minority Interest in AM-Pharma B.V. (IH) ––In April 2015, we acquired a minority equity interest in AM-Pharma, a privately-held Dutch biopharmaceutical company focused on the development of recAP for inflammatory diseases, and secured an exclusive option to acquire the remaining equity in the company. The option becomes exercisable after completion of a Phase II trial of recAP in the treatment of Acute Kidney Injury related to sepsis, which is currently expected in the first quarter of 2018. Under the terms of the agreement, we originally paid $87.5 million for both the exclusive option and the minority equity interest, which was recorded as a cost-method investment in Long-term investments. During the fourth quarter of 2017, we recognized a loss of $43 million for an impairment of our long-term investment. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Collaboration with OPKO Health, Inc. ––We entered into a collaborative agreement with OPKO, which closed in January 2015, to develop and commercialize OPKO’s long-acting hGH-CTP for the treatment of GHD in adults and children, as well as for the treatment of growth failure in children born SGA who fail to show catch-up growth by two years of age. hGH-CTP has the potential to reduce the required dosing frequency of human growth hormone to a single weekly injection from the current standard of one injection per day. We have received the exclusive license to commercialize hGH-CTP worldwide. OPKO will lead the clinical activities and will be responsible for funding the development programs for the key indications, which include Adult and Pediatric GHD and Pediatric SGA. We will be responsible for all development costs for additional indications, all postmarketing studies, manufacturing and commercialization activities for all indications, and we will lead the manufacturing activities related to product development. In February 2015, we made an upfront payment of $295 million to OPKO, which was recorded in Research and development expenses, and OPKO is eligible to receive up to an additional $275 million upon the achievement of certain regulatory milestones. OPKO is also eligible to receive royalty payments associated with the commercialization of hGH-CTP for Adult GHD, which is subject to regulatory approval. Upon the launch of hGH-CTP for Pediatric GHD, which is subject to regulatory approval, the royalties will transition to tiered gross profit sharing for both hGH-CTP and our product, Genotropin. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 14 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Acquisition of Marketed Vaccines Business of Baxter International Inc. (IH) ––On December 1, 2014 (which fell in the first fiscal quarter of 2015 for our international operations), we acquired Baxter’s portfolio of marketed vaccines for a final purchase price of $648 million . The portfolio that was acquired consists of NeisVac-C and FSME-IMMUN/TicoVac. NeisVac-C is a vaccine that helps protect against meningitis caused by group C meningococcal meningitis and FSME-IMMUN/TicoVac is a vaccine that helps protect against tick-borne encephalitis. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Collaboration with Merck KGaA (IH) ––In November 2014, we entered into a collaborative arrangement with Merck KGaA, to jointly develop and commercialize avelumab, the proposed international non-proprietary name for the investigational anti-PD-L1 antibody (MSB0010718C), currently approved as Bavencio for metastatic MCC and for patients with locally advanced or metastatic UC in certain countries and in development as a potential treatment for multiple other types of cancer. Under the terms of the agreement, in the fourth quarter of 2014, we made an upfront payment of $850 million to Merck KGaA and Merck KGaA is eligible to receive regulatory and commercial milestone payments of up to approximately $2.0 billion . As of December 31, 2017, we made $140 million in milestone payments to Merck KGaA for approvals of avelumab received in 2017 for the MCC indication in the U.S., the EU and Japan, and for the metastatic UC indication in the U.S. Both companies jointly fund all development and commercialization costs, and split equally any profits generated from selling any anti-PD-L1 or anti-PD-1 products from this collaboration. Also, as part of the agreement, we gave Merck KGaA certain co-promotion rights for Xalkori in the U.S. and several other key markets. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Collaboration with Eli Lilly & Company ––In 2013, we entered into a collaboration agreement with Lilly to jointly develop and globally commercialize Pfizer ’ s tanezumab, which provides that Pfizer and Lilly will equally share product-development expenses as well as potential revenues and certain product-related costs. Following the decision by the FDA in March 2015 to lift the partial clinical hold on the tanezumab development program, we received a $200 million upfront payment from Lilly in accordance with the collaboration agreement between Pfizer and Lilly, which is recorded as deferred revenue in our consolidated balance sheet and is being recognized into Other (income)/deductions –– net over a multi-year period beginning in the second quarter of 2015. Pfizer and Lilly resumed the Phase 3 chronic pain program for tanezumab in July 2015. The FDA granted Fast Track designation for tanezumab for the treatment of chronic pain in patients with OA and CLBP in June 2017. Under the collaboration agreement with Lilly, we are eligible to receive additional payments from Lilly upon the achievement of specified regulatory and commercial milestones. 
 
 Our Financial Guidance for 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following table provides our financial guidance for full-year 2018 (a), (b) : 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 $53.5 to $55.5 billion 
 
 
 Adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenues 
 
 20.5% to 21.5% 
 
 
 Adjusted selling, informational and administrative expenses 
 
 $14.0 to $15.0 billion 
 
 
 Adjusted research and development expenses 
 
 $7.4 to $7.9 billion 
 
 
 Adjusted other (income)/deductions 
 
 Approximately $400 million of income 
 
 
 Effective tax rate on adjusted income 
 
 Approximately 17.0% 
 
 
 Adjusted diluted EPS 
 
 $2.90 to $3.00 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 The 2018 financial guidance reflects the following: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 A full year contribution from Consumer Healthcare. Pfizer continues to expect that any decision regarding strategic alternatives for Consumer Healthcare would be made during 2018. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Does not assume the completion of any business development transactions not completed as of December 31, 2017 , including any one-time upfront payments associated with such transactions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Exchange rates assumed are as of mid-January 2018. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Reflects an anticipated negative revenue impact of $2.0 billion due to recent and expected generic and biosimilar competition for certain products that have recently lost or are anticipated to soon lose patent protection. Assumes no generic competition for Lyrica in the U.S. until June 2019, which is contingent upon a six-month patent-term extension granted by the FDA for pediatric exclusivity, which the company is currently pursuing. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Reflects the anticipated favorable impact of $900 million on revenues and $0.06 on adjusted diluted EPS as a result of favorable changes in foreign exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar compared to foreign exchange rates from 2017. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Guidance for the effective tax rate on Adjusted income reflects our provisional estimate of the impact of the TCJA. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Guidance for adjusted diluted EPS assumes diluted weighted-average shares outstanding of approximately 6.0 billion shares, which reflects anticipated share repurchases totaling $5.0 billion in 2018 . Dilution related to share-based employee compensation programs is expected to offset by approximately half the reduction in shares associated with these anticipated share repurchases. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 For an understanding of Adjusted income and its components and Adjusted diluted EPS (all of which are non-GAAP financial measures), see the “Non-GAAP Financial Measure (Adjusted Income)” section of this Financial Review. 
 Pfizer does not provide guidance for GAAP Reported financial measures (other than Revenues) or a reconciliation of forward-looking non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP Reported financial measures on a forward-looking basis because it is unable to predict with reasonable certainty the ultimate outcome of pending litigation, unusual gains and losses, acquisition-related expenses and potential future asset impairments without unreasonable effort. These items are uncertain, depend on various factors, and could have a material impact on GAAP Reported results for the guidance period. 
 For information about our actual costs and anticipated costs and cost savings associated with our three-year cost-reduction initiative entered into in the fourth quarter of 2016, the Hospira acquisition, our recent business development activities, and global commercial structure, see the “Costs and Expenses––Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives” section of this Financial Review and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 3 . Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives. 
 
 Our 2018 financial guidance is subject to a number of factors and uncertainties as described in the “Our Operating Environment”, “The Global Economic Environment”, “Our Strategy” and “Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results” sections of this Financial Review; and Part I, ITEM 1A, “Risk Factors” of our 2017 Form 10-K. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 15 
 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND APPLICATION OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS 
 
 For a description of our significant accounting policies, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 1. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies . Of these policies, the following are considered critical to an understanding of our consolidated financial statements as they require the application of the most subjective and the most complex judgments: (i) Acquisitions (Note 1D); (ii) Fair Value (Note 1E); (iii) Revenues (Note 1G); (iv) Asset Impairments (Note 1K); (v) Income Tax Assets and Liabilities and Income Tax Contingencies (Note 1O); (vi) Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans (Note 1P); and Legal and Environmental Contingencies (Note 1Q). 
 
 Following is a discussion about the critical accounting estimates and assumptions impacting our consolidated financial statements. See also Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 1C. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies: Estimates and Assumptions for a discussion about the risks associated with estimates and assumptions. 
 
 Acquisitions and Fair Value 
 
 For a discussion about the application of fair value to our recent acquisitions, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 2A. Acquisitions, Sale of Hospira Infusion Systems Net Assets, Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements, Equity-Method Investments and Cost-Method Investment: Acquisitions. 
 
 For a discussion about the application of fair value to our investments, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 7A. Fair Value Measurements . 
 
 For a discussion about the application of fair value to our benefit plan assets, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 11D. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans and Defined Contribution Plans: Plan Assets . 
 
 For a discussion about the application of fair value to our asset impairment reviews, see “Asset Impairment Reviews” below. 
 
 Revenues 
 
 Our gross product revenues are subject to a variety of deductions, that generally are estimated and recorded in the same period that the revenues are recognized, and primarily represent chargebacks, rebates and sales allowances to wholesalers, and, to a lesser extent, distributors like MCOs, retailers and government agencies with respect to our pharmaceutical products. Those deductions represent estimates of rebates and discounts related to gross sales for the reporting period and, as such, knowledge and judgment of market conditions and practice are required when estimating the impact of these revenue deductions on gross sales for a reporting period. 
 
 Historically, our adjustments of estimates, to reflect actual results or updated expectations, have not been material to our overall business. On a quarterly basis, our adjustments of estimates to reflect actual results generally have been less than 1% of revenues, and have resulted in either a net increase or a net decrease in revenues. Product-specific rebates, however, can have a significant impact on year-over-year individual product growth trends. If any of our ratios, factors, assessments, experiences or judgments are not indicative or accurate predictors of our future experience, our results could be materially affected. The sensitivity of our estimates can vary by program, type of customer and geographic location. However, estimates associated with U.S. Medicare, Medicaid and performance-based contract rebates are most at risk for material adjustment because of the extensive time delay between the recording of the accrual and its ultimate settlement, an interval that can generally range up to one year. Because of this time lag, in any given quarter, our adjustments to actual can incorporate revisions of several prior quarters. 
 
 Asset Impairment Reviews 
 
 We review all of our long-lived assets for impairment indicators throughout the year. We perform impairment testing for indefinite-lived intangible assets and goodwill at least annually and for all other long-lived assets whenever impairment indicators are present. When necessary, we record charges for impairments of long-lived assets for the amount by which the fair value is less than the carrying value of these assets. Our impairment review processes are described in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 1K. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies: Amortization of Intangible Assets, Depreciation and Certain Long-Lived Assets. 
 
 Examples of events or circumstances that may be indicative of impairment include: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 A significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate that could affect the value of the asset. For example, a successful challenge of our patent rights would likely result in generic competition earlier than expected. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 A significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used. For example, restrictions imposed by the FDA or other regulatory authorities could affect our ability to manufacture or sell a product. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 A projection or forecast that indicates losses or reduced profits associated with an asset. This could result, for example, from a change in a government reimbursement program that results in an inability to sustain projected product revenues and profitability. This also could result from the introduction of a competitor’s product that results in a significant loss of market share or the inability to achieve the previously projected revenue growth, as well as the lack of acceptance of a product by patients, physicians and payers. For IPR&D projects, this could result from, among other things, a change in outlook based on clinical trial data, a delay in the projected launch date or additional expenditures to commercialize the product. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 16 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Identifiable Intangible Assets 
 
 As a result of our identifiable intangible asset impairment review work, we recognized a number of impairments of identifiable intangible assets for the years ended December 31, 2017 , 2016 and 2015 . See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 4. Other (Income)/Deductions — Net. 
 
 When we are required to determine the fair value of intangible assets other than goodwill, we use an income approach, specifically the discounted cash flow method. We start with a forecast of all the expected net cash flows associated with the asset, which includes the application of a terminal value for indefinite-lived assets, and then we apply an asset-specific discount rate to arrive at a net present value amount. Some of the more significant estimates and assumptions inherent in this approach include: the amount and timing of the projected net cash flows, which includes the expected impact of competitive, legal and/or regulatory forces on the projections and the impact of technological risk associated with IPR&D assets, as well as the selection of a long-term growth rate; the discount rate, which seeks to reflect the various risks inherent in the projected cash flows; and the tax rate, which seeks to incorporate the geographic diversity of the projected cash flows. 
 
 While all intangible assets other than goodwill can face events and circumstances that can lead to impairment, in general, intangible assets other than goodwill that are most at risk of impairment include IPR&D assets (approximately $5.2 billion as of December 31, 2017 ) and newly acquired or recently impaired indefinite-lived brand assets. IPR&D assets are high-risk assets, as R&D is an inherently risky activity. Newly acquired and recently impaired indefinite-lived assets are more vulnerable to impairment as the assets are recorded at fair value and are then subsequently measured at the lower of fair value or carrying value at the end of each reporting period. As such, immediately after acquisition or impairment, even small declines in the outlook for these assets can negatively impact our ability to recover the carrying value and can result in an impairment charge. 
 
 Goodwill 
 
 As a result of our goodwill impairment review work, we concluded that none of our goodwill was impaired as of December 31, 2017 , and we do not believe the risk of impairment is significant at this time. 
 
 We first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. Qualitative factors that we consider include, for example, macroeconomic and industry conditions, overall financial performance and other relevant entity-specific events. If we conclude that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, we then perform a quantitative fair value test. 
 
 When we are required to determine the fair value of a reporting unit, as appropriate for the individual reporting unit, we mainly use the income approach but we may also use the market approach, or a weighted-average combination of both approaches. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The income approach is a forward-looking approach to estimating fair value and relies primarily on internal forecasts. Within the income approach, the method that we use is the discounted cash flow method. We start with a forecast of all the expected net cash flows associated with the reporting unit, which includes the application of a terminal value, and then we apply a reporting unit-specific discount rate to arrive at a net present value amount. Some of the more significant estimates and assumptions inherent in this approach include: the amount and timing of the projected net cash flows, which includes the expected impact of technological risk and competitive, legal and/or regulatory forces on the projections, as well as the selection of a long-term growth rate; the discount rate, which seeks to reflect the various risks inherent in the projected cash flows; and the tax rate, which seeks to incorporate the geographic diversity of the projected cash flows. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The market approach is a historical approach to estimating fair value and relies primarily on external information. Within the market approach are two methods that we may use: 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 Guideline public company method—this method employs market multiples derived from market prices of stocks of companies that are engaged in the same or similar lines of business and that are actively traded on a free and open market and the application of the identified multiples to the corresponding measure of our reporting unit’s financial performance. 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 Guideline transaction method—this method relies on pricing multiples derived from transactions of significant interests in companies engaged in the same or similar lines of business and the application of the identified multiples to the corresponding measure of our reporting unit’s financial performance. 
 The market approach is only appropriate when the available external information is robust and deemed to be a reliable proxy for the specific reporting unit being valued; however, these assessments may prove to be incomplete or inaccurate. Some of the more significant estimates and assumptions inherent in this approach include: the selection of appropriate guideline companies and transactions and the determination of applicable premiums and discounts based on any differences in ownership percentages, ownership rights, business ownership forms or marketability between the reporting unit and the guideline companies and transactions. 
 For all of our reporting units, there are a number of future events and factors that may impact future results and that could potentially have an impact on the outcome of subsequent goodwill impairment testing. For a list of these factors, see the “Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results” section of this Financial Review and Part I, ITEM 1A, “Risk Factors” in our 2017 Form 10-K. 
 Benefit Plans 
 
 The majority of our employees worldwide are covered by defined benefit pension plans, defined contribution plans or both. In the U.S., we have both IRC-qualified and supplemental (non-qualified) defined benefit plans and defined contribution plans, as well as other postretirement benefit plans consisting primarily of medical insurance for retirees and their eligible dependents. 
 
 The accounting for benefit plans is highly dependent on actuarial estimates, assumptions and calculations, which can result from a complex series of judgments about future events and uncertainties. The assumptions and actuarial estimates required to estimate the net employee 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 17 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 benefit obligations for the defined benefit and postretirement plans include the discount rate; expected salary increases; certain employee-related factors, such as turnover, retirement age and mortality (life expectancy); expected return on plan assets; and healthcare cost trend rates. 
 
 Effective January 1, 2018, accruals for future benefits under the Pfizer Consolidated Pension Plan (our largest U.S. defined benefit plan) and the defined benefit section of the Pfizer Group Pension Scheme (our largest pension plan in the U.K.) were frozen and will result in elimination of future service costs for the plan. The Pfizer defined contribution savings plan will provide additional annual contributions to those previously accruing benefits under the Pfizer Consolidated Pension Plan and active members of the Pfizer Group Pension Scheme will start accruing benefits under the defined contribution section of that plan. 
 
 As of December 31, 2017 , the noncurrent portion of our pension benefit obligations, net, and our postretirement benefit obligations, net decreased, in the aggregate, by approximately $742 million compared to December 31, 2016 . The decrease reflects, among other things, the $1.0 billion voluntary pension contribution we made in January 2017 and an increase in actual returns on plan assets, partially offset by the impact of a decrease in the discount rate used in the measurement of plan obligations. 
 
 Our assumptions reflect our historical experiences and our judgment regarding future expectations that have been deemed reasonable by management. The judgments made in determining the costs of our benefit plans can materially impact our results of operations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following table provides (i) at the end of each year, the expected annual rate of return on plan assets for the following year, (ii) the actual annual rate of return on plan assets achieved in each year, and (iii) the weighted-average discount rate used to measure the benefit obligations at the end of each year for our U.S. qualified pension plans and our international pension plans (a) : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 
 
 U.S. Qualified Pension Plans 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Expected annual rate of return on plan assets 
 
 
 
 7.5 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 8.0 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 8.0 
 
 % 
 
 
 Actual annual rate of return on plan assets 
 
 
 
 16.2 
 
 
 
 
 
 8.1 
 
 
 
 
 
 (0.8 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Discount rate used to measure the plan obligations 
 
 
 
 3.8 
 
 
 
 
 
 4.3 
 
 
 
 
 
 4.5 
 
 
 
 
 International Pension Plans 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Expected annual rate of return on plan assets 
 
 
 
 4.4 
 
 
 
 
 
 4.7 
 
 
 
 
 
 5.2 
 
 
 
 
 Actual annual rate of return on plan assets 
 
 
 
 10.3 
 
 
 
 
 
 9.3 
 
 
 
 
 
 3.6 
 
 
 
 
 Discount rate used to measure the plan obligations 
 
 
 
 2.3 
 
 
 
 
 
 2.4 
 
 
 
 
 
 3.1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 For detailed assumptions associated with our benefit plans, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 11B. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans and Defined Contribution Plans: Actuarial Assumptions. 
 Expected Annual Rate of Return on Plan Assets 
 
 The assumptions for the expected annual rate of return on all of our plan assets reflect our actual historical return experience and our long-term assessment of forward-looking return expectations by asset classes, which is used to develop a weighted-average expected return based on the implementation of our targeted asset allocation in our respective plans. 
 
 The expected annual rate of return on plan assets for our U.S. plans and the majority of our international plans is applied to the fair value of plan assets at each year-end and the resulting amount is reflected in our net periodic benefit costs in the following year. In February 2018, Pfizer made a voluntary contribution of $500 million to the U.S. qualified pension plans. In 2018, this contribution was included in the plan asset balance for purposes of determining the expected return on plan assets. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following table illustrates the sensitivity of net periodic benefit costs to a 50 basis point decline in our assumption for the expected annual rate of return on plan assets, holding all other assumptions constant (in millions, pre-tax): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Change 
 
 
 
 Increase in 2018 Net Periodic Benefit Costs 
 
 
 Assumption 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Expected annual rate of return on plan assets 
 
 
 
 50 basis point decline 
 
 
 
 $110 
 
 The actual return on plan assets resulted in a net gain on our plan assets of approximately $2.9 billion during 2017 . 
 
 Discount Rate Used to Measure Plan Obligations 
 
 The weighted-average discount rate used to measure the plan obligations for our U.S. defined benefit plans is determined at least annually and evaluated and modified, as required, to reflect the prevailing market rate of a portfolio of high-quality fixed income investments, rated AA/Aa or better, that reflect the rates at which the pension benefits could be effectively settled. The discount rate used to measure the plan obligations for our international plans is determined at least annually by reference to investment grade corporate bonds, rated AA/Aa or better, including, when there is sufficient data, a yield-curve approach. These discount rate determinations are made in consideration of local requirements. 
 
 The measurement of the plan obligations at the end of the year will affect the amount of service cost, interest cost and amortization expense reflected in our net periodic benefit costs in the following year. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 18 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following table illustrates the sensitivity of net periodic benefit costs and benefit obligations to a 10 basis point decline in our assumption for the discount rate, holding all other assumptions constant (in millions, pre-tax): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Change 
 
 
 
 Increase in 2018 Net Periodic Benefit Costs 
 
 
 
 2017 Benefit Obligations 
 
 
 Assumption 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Increase 
 
 
 
 Increase 
 
 
 Discount rate 
 
 
 
 10 basis point decline 
 
 
 
 $8 
 
 
 
 $463 
 
 The change in the discount rates used in measuring our plan obligations as of December 31, 2017 resulted in an increase in the measurement of our aggregate plan obligations by approximately $1.3 billion . 
 Income Tax Assets and Liabilities 
 
 In the fourth quarter of 2017, we recorded an estimate of certain tax effects of the TCJA, including the impact on deferred tax assets and liabilities from the reduction in the corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% , the impact on valuation allowances and other state income tax considerations, a repatriation tax liability on accumulated post-1986 foreign earnings for which we plan to elect payment over eight years through 2026 that is reported in Other taxes payable , and deferred taxes on basis differences expected to give rise to future taxes on global intangible low-taxed income. In addition, we had provided deferred tax liabilities in the past on foreign earnings that were not indefinitely reinvested. As a result of the TCJA, we reversed an estimate of the deferred taxes that are no longer expected to be needed due to the change to the territorial tax system. The estimated amounts recorded may change in the future due to uncertain tax positions. 
 The TCJA subjects a U.S. shareholder to current tax on global intangible low-taxed income earned by certain foreign subsidiaries. The FASB Staff Q&A, Topic 740, No. 5, Accounting for Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income , states that we are permitted to make an accounting policy election to either recognize deferred taxes for temporary basis differences expected to reverse as global intangible low-taxed income in future years or provide for the tax expense related to such income in the year the tax is incurred. We have elected to recognize deferred taxes for temporary differences expected to reverse as global intangible low-taxed income in future years. However, given the complexity of these provisions, we have not finalized our analysis. We were able to make a reasonable estimate of the deferred taxes on the temporary differences expected to reverse in the future and provided a provisional deferred tax liability as of December 31, 2017. The provisional amount is based on the evaluation of certain temporary differences inside each of our foreign subsidiaries that are expected to reverse as global intangible low-taxed income. However, as we continue to evaluate the TCJA’s global intangible low-taxed income provisions during the measurement period, we may revise the methodology used for determining the deferred tax liability associated with such income. 
 We believe that we have made reasonable estimates with respect to each of the above items, however, all of the amounts recorded are provisional as we have not completed our analysis of the complex and far reaching effects of the TCJA. Further, we continue to consider our assertions on any remaining outside basis differences in our foreign subsidiaries as of December 31, 2017 and have not completed our analysis. Under guidance issued by the staff of the SEC, we expect to finalize our accounting related to the tax effects of the TCJA on deferred taxes, valuation allowances, state tax considerations, the repatriation tax liability, global intangible low-taxed income, and any remaining outside basis differences in our foreign subsidiaries during 2018 as we complete our analysis, computations and assertions. We will revise these estimates during 2018 as we gather additional information to complete our tax returns and as any interpretation or clarification of the TCJA occurs through legislation, U.S. Treasury actions or other means. 
 
 Income tax assets and liabilities also include Income tax valuation allowances and accruals for uncertain tax positions. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 1C. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies: Estimates and Assumptions ; Note 1O. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies: Tax Assets and Liabilities and Income Tax Contingencies and Note 5A. Tax Matters: Taxes on Income from Continuing Operations, as well as the “Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources––Selected Measures of Liquidity and Capital Resources—Contractual Obligations” section of this Financial Review . 
 
 Contingencies 
 
 For a discussion about income tax contingencies, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 5D. Tax Matters: Tax Contingencies. 
 
 For a discussion about legal and environmental contingencies, guarantees and indemnifications, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 17. Commitments and Contingencies . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 19 
 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ANALYSIS OF THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 
 17/16 
 
 
 
 16/15 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 52,546 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 52,824 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 48,851 
 
 
 
 
 
 (1 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 8 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 
 
 11,240 
 
 
 
 
 
 12,329 
 
 
 
 
 
 9,648 
 
 
 
 
 
 (9 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 28 
 
 
 
 
 % of revenues 
 
 
 
 21.4 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 23.3 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 19.7 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses 
 
 
 
 14,784 
 
 
 
 
 
 14,837 
 
 
 
 
 
 14,809 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 % of revenues 
 
 
 
 28.1 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 28.1 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 30.3 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Research and development expenses 
 
 
 
 7,657 
 
 
 
 
 
 7,872 
 
 
 
 
 
 7,690 
 
 
 
 
 
 (3 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 % of revenues 
 
 
 
 14.6 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 14.9 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 15.7 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization of intangible assets 
 
 
 
 4,758 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,056 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,728 
 
 
 
 
 
 17 
 
 
 
 
 
 9 
 
 
 
 
 % of revenues 
 
 
 
 9.1 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 7.7 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 7.6 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 
 
 
 
 487 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,724 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,152 
 
 
 
 
 
 (72 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 50 
 
 
 
 
 % of revenues 
 
 
 
 0.9 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 3.3 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 2.4 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Other (income)/deductions—net 
 
 
 
 1,315 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,655 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,860 
 
 
 
 
 
 (64 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 28 
 
 
 
 
 Income from continuing operations before provision/(benefit) for taxes on income 
 
 
 
 12,305 
 
 
 
 
 
 8,351 
 
 
 
 
 
 8,965 
 
 
 
 
 
 47 
 
 
 
 
 
 (7 
 
 ) 
 
 
 % of revenues 
 
 
 
 23.4 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 15.8 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 18.4 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Provision/(benefit) for taxes on income 
 
 
 
 (9,049 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 1,123 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,990 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 (44 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Effective tax rate 
 
 
 
 (73.5 
 
 )% 
 
 
 
 13.4 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 22.2 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Income from continuing operations 
 
 
 
 21,353 
 
 
 
 
 
 7,229 
 
 
 
 
 
 6,975 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 4 
 
 
 
 
 % of revenues 
 
 
 
 40.6 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 13.7 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 14.3 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Discontinued operations—net of tax 
 
 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 17 
 
 
 
 
 
 11 
 
 
 
 
 
 (87 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 49 
 
 
 
 
 Net income before allocation to noncontrolling interests 
 
 
 
 21,355 
 
 
 
 
 
 7,246 
 
 
 
 
 
 6,986 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 4 
 
 
 
 
 % of revenues 
 
 
 
 40.6 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 13.7 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 14.3 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 
 
 
 
 47 
 
 
 
 
 
 31 
 
 
 
 
 
 26 
 
 
 
 
 
 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 20 
 
 
 
 
 Net income attributable to Pfizer Inc. 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 21,308 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 7,215 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 6,960 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 4 
 
 
 
 
 % of revenues 
 
 
 
 40.6 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 13.7 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 14.2 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Certain amounts and percentages may reflect rounding adjustments. 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 Indicates calculation not meaningful or result is equal to or greater than 100%. 
 Revenues—Overview 
 Compared to 2016, total revenues for 2017 were unfavorably impacted by approximately $200 million as a result of 2017 having one less selling day in both U.S. and international markets. 
 Total revenues in 2017 compared to 2016 reflect a slight operational decrease of $20 million , or less than 1%, and an unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of $259 million , or less than 1% , in 2017 , compared to 2016 . 
 Compared to 2015, international revenues for 2016 were favorably impacted by approximately $100 million as a result of 2016 having one more selling day in international markets. In the U.S., there was no difference in selling days in 2016, compared to 2015. 
 Total revenues in 2016 compared to 2015 reflect an operational increase of $5.5 billion , or 11% , partially offset by an unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of $1.5 billion , or 3% , in 2016 compared to 2015 . 
 See the “Revenues by Segment and Geography” and “Revenues—Major Products” sections of this Financial Report for additional analyses. 
 See the “Intellectual Property Rights and Collaboration/Licensing Rights” section of this Financial Report for information about (i) recent losses and expected losses of product exclusivity impacting product revenues and (ii) recent losses of collaboration rights impacting alliance revenues. 
 In addition, we expect to lose exclusivity for various other products in various markets over the next few years. For additional information, see the “Patents and Other Intellectual Property Rights” section in Part I, ITEM 1, “Business”, of our 2017 Form 10-K. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 20 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 We have significant operations outside the U.S., with revenues exceeding $500 million in the following number of countries: 
 
 By total revenues, the U.S., Japan and China are our three largest national markets: 
 
 Inventory Stocking 
 
 Our policy relating to the supply of pharmaceutical inventory at domestic wholesalers, and in major international markets, is to generally maintain stocking levels under one month on average and to keep monthly levels consistent from year to year based on patterns of utilization. We historically have been able to closely monitor these customer stocking levels by purchasing information from our customers directly or by obtaining other third-party information. We believe our data sources to be directionally reliable but cannot verify their accuracy. Further, as we do not control this third-party data, we cannot be assured of continuing access. Unusual buying patterns and utilization are promptly investigated. 
 
 Revenue Deductions 
 
 Our gross product revenues are subject to a variety of deductions that are generally estimated and recorded in the same period that the revenues are recognized, and primarily represent chargebacks, rebates and sales allowances to wholesalers, and, to a lesser extent, distributors like MCOs, retailers and government agencies with respect to our pharmaceutical products. Those deductions represent estimates of rebates and discounts related to gross sales for the reporting period and, as such, knowledge and judgment of market conditions and practice are required when estimating the impact of these revenue deductions on gross sales for a reporting period. 
 
 Historically, our adjustments of estimates, to reflect actual results or updated expectations, have not been material to our overall business. On a quarterly basis, our adjustments of estimates to reflect actual results generally have been less than 1% of revenues, and have resulted in either a net increase or a net decrease in revenues. Product-specific rebates, however, can have a significant impact on year-over-year individual product growth trends. If any of our ratios, factors, assessments, experiences or judgments are not indicative or accurate predictors of our future experience, our results could be materially affected. The sensitivity of our estimates can vary by program, type of customer and geographic location. However, estimates associated with U.S. Medicare, Medicaid and performance-based contract rebates are most at risk for material adjustment because of the extensive time delay between the recording of the accrual and its ultimate settlement, an interval that can generally range up to one year. Because of this time lag, in any given quarter, our adjustments to actual can incorporate revisions of several prior quarters. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 21 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following table provides information about revenue deductions: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 
 
 Medicare rebates (a) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,316 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,063 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,002 
 
 
 
 
 Medicaid and related state program rebates (a) 
 
 
 
 1,860 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,473 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,263 
 
 
 
 
 Performance-based contract rebates (a), (b) 
 
 
 
 3,245 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,560 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,253 
 
 
 
 
 Chargebacks (c) 
 
 
 
 6,047 
 
 
 
 
 
 5,736 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,961 
 
 
 
 
 Sales allowances (d) 
 
 
 
 5,165 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,623 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,200 
 
 
 
 
 Sales returns and cash discounts 
 
 
 
 1,493 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,441 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,335 
 
 
 
 
 Total (e) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 19,126 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 16,895 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 15,014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 Rebates are product-specific and, therefore, for any given year are impacted by the mix of products sold. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 Performance-based contract rebates include contract rebates with managed care customers within the U.S., including health maintenance organizations and PBMs, who receive rebates based on the achievement of contracted performance terms and claims under these contracts. Outside the U.S., performance-based contract rebates include rebates to wholesalers/distributors based on achievement of contracted performance for specific products or sales milestones. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 Chargebacks primarily represent reimbursements to U.S. wholesalers for honoring contracted prices to third parties. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) 
 
 Sales allowances primarily represent price reductions that are contractual or legislatively mandated outside the U.S., discounts and distribution fees. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (e) 
 
 For 2017 , associated with the following segments: IH ( $9.0 billion ); and EH ( $10.1 billion ). For 2016 , associated with the following segments: IH ( $7.1 billion ); and EH ( $9.8 billion ). For 2015 , associated with the following segments: IH ( $5.8 billion ); and EH ( $9.2 billion ). 
 
 Total revenue deductions for 2017 increase d 13% compared to 2016 , primarily as a result of: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 an increase in performance-based contract rebates primarily due to increased sales of certain IH products to managed care customers in the U.S., and certain IH and EH products in developed Europe; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 an increase in sales allowances as a result of sales growth, primarily in emerging markets; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 an increase in Medicaid and related state program rebates, primarily as a result of increased sales of both IH and EH products through these programs; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 higher chargebacks resulting from increased sales through U.S. wholesalers of certain IH products, partially offset by decreases in sterile injectable sales; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 an increase in Medicare rebates driven by increased sales of IH products through this channel, offset by certain EH products which have recently lost exclusivity. 
 For information on our accruals for Medicare rebates, Medicaid and related state program rebates, performance-based contract rebates, chargebacks, sales allowances and sales returns and cash discounts, including the balance sheet classification of these accruals, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 1G. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies: Revenues and Trade Accounts Receivable . 
 
 Revenues by Segment and Geography 
 
 The following graphs show revenues by geography (dollars in billions): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 22 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following table provides worldwide revenues by operating segment and geography: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Worldwide 
 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 
 Worldwide 
 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 17/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 16/15 
 
 
 
 17/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 16/15 
 
 
 
 17/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 16/15 
 
 
 
 
 Operating Segments (a) : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 IH 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 31,422 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 29,197 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 26,758 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 18,460 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 16,773 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 14,446 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 12,962 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 12,424 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 12,312 
 
 
 
 
 
 8 
 
 
 
 
 
 9 
 
 
 
 10 
 
 
 
 
 
 16 
 
 
 
 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 
 
 
 
 
 EH 
 
 
 
 21,124 
 
 
 
 
 
 23,627 
 
 
 
 
 
 22,094 
 
 
 
 
 
 7,567 
 
 
 
 
 
 9,596 
 
 
 
 
 
 7,258 
 
 
 
 
 
 13,557 
 
 
 
 
 
 14,031 
 
 
 
 
 
 14,836 
 
 
 
 
 
 (11 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 7 
 
 
 
 (21 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 32 
 
 
 
 (3 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (5 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Total revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 52,546 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 52,824 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 48,851 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 26,026 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 26,369 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 21,704 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 26,519 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 26,455 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 27,147 
 
 
 
 
 
 (1 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 8 
 
 
 
 (1 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 21 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (3 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 IH = the Innovative Health segment; and EH = the Essential Health segment. For additional information about each operating segment, see the “Our Strategy––Commercial Operations” section of this Financial Review and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 18A. Segment, Geographic and Other Revenue Information: Segment Information. 
 We recorded direct product and/or alliance revenues of more than $1 billion for each of nine products in 2017 and 2016 and for seven products in 2015 . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Direct Product And/Or Alliance Revenues of More Than $1 Billion 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13 
 
 
 
 Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13 
 
 
 
 Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13 
 
 
 Lyrica 
 
 
 
 Lyrica 
 
 
 
 Lyrica 
 
 
 Ibrance 
 
 
 
 Enbrel 
 
 
 
 Enbrel 
 
 
 Eliquis* 
 
 
 
 Ibrance 
 
 
 
 Lipitor 
 
 
 Enbrel 
 
 
 
 Lipitor 
 
 
 
 Viagra 
 
 
 Lipitor 
 
 
 
 Eliquis* 
 
 
 
 Sutent 
 
 
 Xeljanz 
 
 
 
 Viagra 
 
 
 
 Premarin family of products 
 
 
 Viagra 
 
 
 
 Sutent 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sutent 
 
 
 
 Premarin family of products 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 * Eliquis includes alliance revenues and direct sales in 2017 and 2016. 
 These direct product sales and/or alliance product revenues represent 46% of our revenues in 2017 , 43% of our revenues in 2016 and 41% of our revenues in 2015 . See the Revenues—Major Products section of this Financial Review for additional information. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 23 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 v. 2016 
 
 The following provides an analysis of the change in revenues by geographic areas in 2017 : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 Worldwide 
 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Disposition-related operational impact: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Approximately one month of HIS domestic operations and approximately two months of HIS international operations in 2017, compared to twelve months of HIS global operations in 2016 (February 2017 sale) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (1,062 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (841 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (221 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Other operational growth/(decline): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Continued growth from key brands including Eliquis (globally), as well as Xeljanz and Lyrica (IH) (both primarily in the U.S.) 
 
 
 
 1,608 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,104 
 
 
 
 
 
 503 
 
 
 
 
 Ibrance global growth: U.S. revenues increased primarily due to continued strong uptake in the metastatic breast cancer setting. International revenues increased operationally, but were negatively impacted by a one-time price adjustment to 2017 revenues related to finalizing reimbursement agreements in certain developed Europe markets. 
 
 
 
 993 
 
 
 
 
 
 757 
 
 
 
 
 
 236 
 
 
 
 
 Increase in Xtandi alliance revenues in the U.S. (September 2016 acquisition of Medivation) 
 
 
 
 450 
 
 
 
 
 
 450 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Growth from Biosimilars, primarily from Inflectra in the U.S. and developed Europe markets 
 
 
 
 209 
 
 
 
 
 
 115 
 
 
 
 
 
 94 
 
 
 
 
 Decline from Peri-LOE Products, primarily due to expected declines in Pristiq in the U.S. as well as Lyrica (EH) and Vfend (both primarily in developed Europe markets) 
 
 
 
 (957 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (448 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (509 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Lower revenues for Enbrel primarily in developed Europe markets due to continued biosimilar competition 
 
 
 
 (448 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (448 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Lower revenues for Viagra (IH) in the U.S. due to generic competition that began in December 2017 
 
 
 
 (359 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (359 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Decline from the Sterile Injectable Pharmaceuticals portfolio, primarily due to legacy Hospira product shortages in the U.S. 
 
 
 
 (315 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (460 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 145 
 
 
 
 
 Decline in the Legacy Established Products portfolio primarily due to generic competition in developed markets 
 
 
 
 (188 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (419 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 231 
 
 
 
 
 Decline in Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13 revenues. U.S. revenues decreased primarily due to the expected decline in revenues for the adult indication in the U.S. due to a high initial capture rate of the eligible population following its successful fourth-quarter 2014 launch, which resulted in a smaller remaining “catch up” opportunity compared to 2016, partially offset by growth from the pediatric indication. International revenues increased primarily due to the favorable overall impact of timing and increased volume associated with government purchases in certain emerging markets for the pediatric indication compared with prior year, as well as from the inclusion of Prevenar 13 in additional national immunization programs in certain emerging markets for the adult and pediatric indications in the fourth of quarter 2017. 
 
 
 
 (108 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (311 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 203 
 
 
 
 
 Other operational factors, net 
 
 
 
 157 
 
 
 
 
 
 68 
 
 
 
 
 
 89 
 
 
 
 
 Operational growth/(decline), net 
 
 
 
 (20 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (343 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 323 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Unfavorable impact of foreign exchange 
 
 
 
 (259 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (259 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Revenues increase/(decrease) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (278 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (343 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 64 
 
 
 Emerging markets revenues increase d $979 million , or 9% , in 2017 to $11.4 billion , reflecting an operational increase of $1.1 billion , or 11% . Foreign exchange had unfavorable impact of approximately 2% on emerging markets revenues. The operational increase in emerging markets was primarily driven by our IH segment as well as our Legacy Established Products and Sterile Injectable Pharmaceuticals portfolios. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 24 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 v. 2015 
 
 The following provides an analysis of the change in revenues by geographic areas in 2016 : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 Worldwide 
 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 Acquisition-related operational impact: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The inclusion of Xtandi alliance revenues in the U.S. (September 2016 acquisition of Medivation) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 140 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 140 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Other operational growth/(decline): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Continued operational growth from key brands including Ibrance, Lyrica (IH), Xeljanz, Chantix/Champix and Consumer Healthcare (all primarily in the U.S.), as well as Eliquis and Xalkori (both globally) 
 
 
 
 3,582 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,936 
 
 
 
 
 
 646 
 
 
 
 
 Twelve months of revenues from legacy Hospira global operations in 2016, compared to four months of legacy Hospira U.S. operations and three months of legacy Hospira international operations in 2015 
 
 
 
 3,125 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,229 
 
 
 
 
 
 896 
 
 
 
 
 Operational growth in the legacy Pfizer Sterile Injectable Pharmaceuticals portfolio, mostly in emerging markets and the U.S. 
 
 
 
 259 
 
 
 
 
 
 86 
 
 
 
 
 
 173 
 
 
 
 
 Decline from the Peri-LOE Products portfolio, primarily due to the loss of exclusivity and associated generic competition for certain Peri-LOE Products, primarily Zyvox in the U.S. and certain developed Europe markets as well as Lyrica in certain developed Europe markets 
 
 
 
 (954 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (169 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (785 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Decline in Rebif revenues in the U.S. due to the year-end 2015 expiry of the collaboration agreement to co-promote Rebif in the U.S., as well as lower revenues for Enbrel primarily in most developed Europe markets, primarily due to biosimilar competition 
 
 
 
 (571 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (366 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (205 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Decline in Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13 revenues, primarily driven by an expected decline in revenues for the adult indication in the U.S. due to a high initial capture rate of the eligible population following its successful fourth-quarter 2014 launch, which resulted in a smaller remaining “catch up” opportunity compared to the prior-year, as well as the unfavorable impact of the timing of government purchases for the pediatric indication 
 
 
 
 (454 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (381 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (74 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Other operational factors, net 
 
 
 
 328 
 
 
 
 
 
 190 
 
 
 
 
 
 138 
 
 
 
 
 Operational growth, net 
 
 
 
 5,456 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,665 
 
 
 
 
 
 791 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Unfavorable impact of foreign exchange 
 
 
 
 (1,483 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (1,483 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Revenues increase/(decrease) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 3,973 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 4,665 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (692 
 
 ) 
 For additional information about operating segment revenues, see the “Analysis of Operating Segment Information” section of this Financial Review. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 25 
 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Revenues—Major Products 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following table provides revenue information for several of our major products. As described in Note 1A , acquisitions and divestitures have impacted our results of operations in 2017, 2016 and 2015. 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 PRODUCT 
 
 PRIMARY INDICATIONS OR CLASS 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 17/16 
 
 
 
 16/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oper. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oper. 
 
 
 
 
 TOTAL REVENUES 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 52,546 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 52,824 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 48,851 
 
 
 
 
 
 (1 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 8 
 
 
 
 
 
 11 
 
 
 
 
 PFIZER INNOVATIVE HEALTH (IH) (a) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 31,422 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 29,197 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 26,758 
 
 
 
 
 
 8 
 
 
 
 
 
 8 
 
 
 
 
 
 9 
 
 
 
 
 
 11 
 
 
 
 
 Internal Medicine 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 9,684 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 8,858 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 7,611 
 
 
 
 
 
 9 
 
 
 
 
 
 10 
 
 
 
 
 
 16 
 
 
 
 
 
 17 
 
 
 
 
 Lyrica IH (b) 
 
 
 
 Epilepsy, post-herpetic neuralgia and diabetic peripheral neuropathy, fibromyalgia, neuropathic pain due to spinal cord injury 
 
 
 
 4,511 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,165 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,655 
 
 
 
 
 
 8 
 
 
 
 
 
 9 
 
 
 
 
 
 14 
 
 
 
 
 
 14 
 
 
 
 
 Eliquis alliance revenues and direct sales 
 
 
 
 Atrial fibrillation, deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism 
 
 
 
 2,523 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,713 
 
 
 
 
 
 913 
 
 
 
 
 
 47 
 
 
 
 
 
 47 
 
 
 
 
 
 88 
 
 
 
 
 
 88 
 
 
 
 
 Chantix/Champix 
 
 
 
 An aid to smoking cessation treatment in adults 18 years of age or older 
 
 
 
 997 
 
 
 
 
 
 842 
 
 
 
 
 
 671 
 
 
 
 
 
 18 
 
 
 
 
 
 18 
 
 
 
 
 
 26 
 
 
 
 
 
 27 
 
 
 
 
 Viagra IH (c) 
 
 
 
 Erectile dysfunction 
 
 
 
 823 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,181 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,297 
 
 
 
 
 
 (30 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (30 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (9 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (9 
 
 ) 
 
 
 BMP2 
 
 
 
 Development of bone and cartilage 
 
 
 
 261 
 
 
 
 
 
 251 
 
 
 
 
 
 232 
 
 
 
 
 
 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 8 
 
 
 
 
 
 8 
 
 
 
 
 Toviaz 
 
 
 
 Overactive bladder 
 
 
 
 257 
 
 
 
 
 
 258 
 
 
 
 
 
 267 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 (3 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (4 
 
 ) 
 
 
 All other Internal Medicine 
 
 
 
 Various 
 
 
 
 312 
 
 
 
 
 
 447 
 
 
 
 
 
 577 
 
 
 
 
 
 (30 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (30 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (22 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (22 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Vaccines 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 6,001 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 6,071 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 6,454 
 
 
 
 
 
 (1 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (1 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (6 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (5 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13 
 
 
 
 Vaccines for prevention of pneumococcal disease 
 
 
 
 5,601 
 
 
 
 
 
 5,718 
 
 
 
 
 
 6,245 
 
 
 
 
 
 (2 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (2 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (8 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (7 
 
 ) 
 
 
 FSME/IMMUN-TicoVac 
 
 
 
 Tick-borne encephalitis vaccine 
 
 
 
 134 
 
 
 
 
 
 114 
 
 
 
 
 
 104 
 
 
 
 
 
 18 
 
 
 
 
 
 19 
 
 
 
 
 
 10 
 
 
 
 
 
 10 
 
 
 
 
 All other Vaccines 
 
 
 
 Various 
 
 
 
 266 
 
 
 
 
 
 239 
 
 
 
 
 
 104 
 
 
 
 
 
 11 
 
 
 
 
 
 12 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 Oncology 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 6,056 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 4,563 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 2,955 
 
 
 
 
 
 33 
 
 
 
 
 
 33 
 
 
 
 
 
 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 56 
 
 
 
 
 Ibrance 
 
 
 
 Advanced breast cancer 
 
 
 
 3,126 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,135 
 
 
 
 
 
 723 
 
 
 
 
 
 46 
 
 
 
 
 
 47 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 Sutent 
 
 
 
 Advanced and/or metastatic RCC, adjuvant RCC, 
 refractory GIST (after disease progression on, or intolerance to, imatinib mesylate) and advanced pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor 
 
 
 
 1,081 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,095 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,120 
 
 
 
 
 
 (1 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (1 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (2 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 1 
 
 
 
 
 Xalkori 
 
 
 
 ALK-positive and ROS1-positive advanced NSCLC 
 
 
 
 594 
 
 
 
 
 
 561 
 
 
 
 
 
 488 
 
 
 
 
 
 6 
 
 
 
 
 
 6 
 
 
 
 
 
 15 
 
 
 
 
 
 17 
 
 
 
 
 Xtandi alliance revenues 
 
 
 
 Advanced prostate cancer 
 
 
 
 590 
 
 
 
 
 
 140 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 Inlyta 
 
 
 
 Advanced RCC 
 
 
 
 339 
 
 
 
 
 
 401 
 
 
 
 
 
 430 
 
 
 
 
 
 (15 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (14 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (7 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (6 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Bosulif 
 
 
 
 Philadelphia chromosome–positive chronic myelogenous leukemia 
 
 
 
 233 
 
 
 
 
 
 167 
 
 
 
 
 
 111 
 
 
 
 
 
 39 
 
 
 
 
 
 40 
 
 
 
 
 
 50 
 
 
 
 
 
 49 
 
 
 
 
 All other Oncology 
 
 
 
 Various 
 
 
 
 93 
 
 
 
 
 
 63 
 
 
 
 
 
 83 
 
 
 
 
 
 46 
 
 
 
 
 
 48 
 
 
 
 
 
 (23 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (23 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Inflammation & Immunology (I&I) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 3,968 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 3,928 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 3,918 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 6 
 
 
 
 
 Enbrel (Outside the U.S. and Canada) 
 
 
 
 Rheumatoid arthritis, juvenile idiopathic arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, plaque psoriasis, pediatric plaque psoriasis, ankylosing spondylitis and nonradiographic axial spondyloarthritis 
 
 
 
 2,452 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,909 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,333 
 
 
 
 
 
 (16 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (15 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (13 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (6 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Xeljanz 
 
 
 
 Rheumatoid arthritis; psoriatic arthritis 
 
 
 
 1,345 
 
 
 
 
 
 927 
 
 
 
 
 
 523 
 
 
 
 
 
 45 
 
 
 
 
 
 45 
 
 
 
 
 
 77 
 
 
 
 
 
 78 
 
 
 
 
 Eucrisa 
 
 
 
 Mild-to-moderate atopic dermatitis (eczema) 
 
 
 
 67 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 All other I&I 
 
 
 
 Various 
 
 
 
 103 
 
 
 
 
 
 93 
 
 
 
 
 
 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 11 
 
 
 
 
 
 13 
 
 
 
 
 
 51 
 
 
 
 
 
 42 
 
 
 
 
 Rare Disease 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 2,240 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 2,369 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 2,425 
 
 
 
 
 
 (5 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (5 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (2 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 BeneFIX 
 
 
 
 Hemophilia 
 
 
 
 604 
 
 
 
 
 
 712 
 
 
 
 
 
 752 
 
 
 
 
 
 (15 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (15 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (5 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (4 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Refacto AF/Xyntha 
 
 
 
 Hemophilia 
 
 
 
 551 
 
 
 
 
 
 554 
 
 
 
 
 
 533 
 
 
 
 
 
 (1 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 8 
 
 
 
 
 Genotropin 
 
 
 
 Replacement of human growth hormone 
 
 
 
 532 
 
 
 
 
 
 579 
 
 
 
 
 
 617 
 
 
 
 
 
 (8 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (7 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (6 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (5 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Somavert 
 
 
 
 Acromegaly 
 
 
 
 254 
 
 
 
 
 
 232 
 
 
 
 
 
 218 
 
 
 
 
 
 9 
 
 
 
 
 
 9 
 
 
 
 
 
 6 
 
 
 
 
 
 8 
 
 
 
 
 All other Rare Disease 
 
 
 
 Various 
 
 
 
 300 
 
 
 
 
 
 292 
 
 
 
 
 
 306 
 
 
 
 
 
 3 
 
 
 
 
 
 3 
 
 
 
 
 
 (5 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Consumer Healthcare 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 3,472 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 3,407 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 3,395 
 
 
 
 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 5 
 
 
 
 
 PFIZER ESSENTIAL HEALTH (EH) (d) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 21,124 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 23,627 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 22,094 
 
 
 
 
 
 (11 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (10 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 7 
 
 
 
 
 
 11 
 
 
 
 
 Legacy Established Products (LEP) (e) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 10,894 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 11,197 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 11,745 
 
 
 
 
 
 (3 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (2 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (5 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 1 
 
 
 
 
 Lipitor 
 
 
 
 Reduction of LDL cholesterol 
 
 
 
 1,915 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,758 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,860 
 
 
 
 
 
 9 
 
 
 
 
 
 11 
 
 
 
 
 
 (6 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 Premarin family 
 
 
 
 Symptoms of menopause 
 
 
 
 977 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,017 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,018 
 
 
 
 
 
 (4 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (4 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Norvasc 
 
 
 
 Hypertension 
 
 
 
 926 
 
 
 
 
 
 962 
 
 
 
 
 
 991 
 
 
 
 
 
 (4 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (2 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (3 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 1 
 
 
 
 
 Xalatan/Xalacom 
 
 
 
 Glaucoma and ocular hypertension 
 
 
 
 335 
 
 
 
 
 
 363 
 
 
 
 
 
 399 
 
 
 
 
 
 (8 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (8 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (9 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (8 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Effexor 
 
 
 
 Depression and certain anxiety disorders 
 
 
 
 297 
 
 
 
 
 
 278 
 
 
 
 
 
 288 
 
 
 
 
 
 7 
 
 
 
 
 
 8 
 
 
 
 
 
 (3 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Zoloft 
 
 
 
 Depression and certain anxiety disorders 
 
 
 
 291 
 
 
 
 
 
 304 
 
 
 
 
 
 374 
 
 
 
 
 
 (4 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (2 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (19 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (14 
 
 ) 
 
 
 EpiPen 
 
 
 
 Epinephrine injection used in treatment of life-threatening allergic reactions 
 
 
 
 290 
 
 
 
 
 
 386 
 
 
 
 
 
 339 
 
 
 
 
 
 (25 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (25 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 14 
 
 
 
 
 
 14 
 
 
 
 
 Zithromax 
 
 
 
 Bacterial infections 
 
 
 
 270 
 
 
 
 
 
 272 
 
 
 
 
 
 275 
 
 
 
 
 
 (1 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 3 
 
 
 
 
 
 (1 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 1 
 
 
 
 
 Relpax 
 
 
 
 Symptoms of migraine headache 
 
 
 
 236 
 
 
 
 
 
 323 
 
 
 
 
 
 352 
 
 
 
 
 
 (27 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (27 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (8 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (8 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Xanax 
 
 
 
 Anxiety disorders 
 
 
 
 225 
 
 
 
 
 
 222 
 
 
 
 
 
 224 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 (1 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 1 
 
 
 
 
 Sildenafil Citrate 
 
 
 
 Erectile dysfunction 
 
 
 
 
 56 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 All other LEP 
 
 
 
 Various 
 
 
 
 5,077 
 
 
 
 
 
 5,313 
 
 
 
 
 
 5,625 
 
 
 
 
 
 (4 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (4 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (6 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 26 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 PRODUCT 
 
 PRIMARY INDICATIONS OR CLASS 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 17/16 
 
 
 
 16/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oper. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oper. 
 
 
 
 
 Sterile Injectable Pharmaceuticals (SIP) (f) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 5,673 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 6,014 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 3,944 
 
 
 
 
 
 (6 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (5 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 56 
 
 
 
 
 Medrol 
 
 
 
 Steroid anti-inflammatory 
 
 
 
 483 
 
 
 
 
 
 450 
 
 
 
 
 
 402 
 
 
 
 
 
 7 
 
 
 
 
 
 8 
 
 
 
 
 
 12 
 
 
 
 
 
 16 
 
 
 
 
 Sulperazon 
 
 
 
 Treatment of infections 
 
 
 
 471 
 
 
 
 
 
 396 
 
 
 
 
 
 339 
 
 
 
 
 
 19 
 
 
 
 
 
 22 
 
 
 
 
 
 17 
 
 
 
 
 
 23 
 
 
 
 
 Fragmin 
 
 
 
 Slows blood clotting 
 
 
 
 306 
 
 
 
 
 
 318 
 
 
 
 
 
 335 
 
 
 
 
 
 (4 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (3 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (5 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Tygacil 
 
 
 
 Tetracycline class antibiotic 
 
 
 
 260 
 
 
 
 
 
 274 
 
 
 
 
 
 304 
 
 
 
 
 
 (5 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (5 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (10 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (5 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Precedex 
 
 
 
 Sedation agent in surgery or intensive care 
 
 
 
 243 
 
 
 
 
 
 264 
 
 
 
 
 
 76 
 
 
 
 
 
 (8 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (8 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 Zosyn/Tazocin 
 
 
 
 Antibiotic 
 
 
 
 194 
 
 
 
 
 
 146 
 
 
 
 
 
 144 
 
 
 
 
 
 32 
 
 
 
 
 
 32 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 3 
 
 
 
 
 All other SIP 
 
 
 
 Various 
 
 
 
 3,715 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,166 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,343 
 
 
 
 
 
 (11 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (10 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 78 
 
 
 
 
 
 80 
 
 
 
 
 Peri-LOE Products (g) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 3,223 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 4,220 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 5,326 
 
 
 
 
 
 (24 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (23 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (21 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (18 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Celebrex 
 
 
 
 Arthritis pain and inflammation, acute pain 
 
 
 
 775 
 
 
 
 
 
 733 
 
 
 
 
 
 830 
 
 
 
 
 
 6 
 
 
 
 
 
 7 
 
 
 
 
 
 (12 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (10 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Lyrica EH (b) 
 
 
 
 Epilepsy, neuropathic pain and generalized anxiety disorder 
 
 
 
 553 
 
 
 
 
 
 801 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,183 
 
 
 
 
 
 (31 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (30 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (32 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (29 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Vfend 
 
 
 
 Fungal infections 
 
 
 
 421 
 
 
 
 
 
 590 
 
 
 
 
 
 682 
 
 
 
 
 
 (29 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (27 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (13 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (10 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Viagra EH (c) 
 
 
 
 Erectile dysfunction 
 
 
 
 382 
 
 
 
 
 
 383 
 
 
 
 
 
 411 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 (7 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (1 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Pristiq 
 
 
 
 Depression 
 
 
 
 303 
 
 
 
 
 
 732 
 
 
 
 
 
 715 
 
 
 
 
 
 (59 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (59 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 4 
 
 
 
 
 Zyvox 
 
 
 
 Bacterial infections 
 
 
 
 281 
 
 
 
 
 
 421 
 
 
 
 
 
 883 
 
 
 
 
 
 (33 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (32 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (52 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (49 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Revatio 
 
 
 
 Pulmonary arterial hypertension 
 
 
 
 252 
 
 
 
 
 
 285 
 
 
 
 
 
 260 
 
 
 
 
 
 (12 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (12 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 10 
 
 
 
 
 
 10 
 
 
 
 
 All other Peri-LOE Products 
 
 
 
 Various 
 
 
 
 257 
 
 
 
 
 
 276 
 
 
 
 
 
 362 
 
 
 
 
 
 (7 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (5 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (24 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (21 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Biosimilars (h) 
 
 
 
 Various 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 531 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 319 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 63 
 
 
 
 
 
 67 
 
 
 
 
 
 66 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 Inflectra/Remsima 
 
 
 
 Inflammatory diseases 
 
 
 
 419 
 
 
 
 
 
 192 
 
 
 
 
 
 30 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 All Other Biosimilars 
 
 
 
 Various 
 
 
 
 112 
 
 
 
 
 
 127 
 
 
 
 
 
 33 
 
 
 
 
 
 (12 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (12 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 Pfizer CentreOne (i) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 706 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 718 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 612 
 
 
 
 
 
 (2 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (2 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 17 
 
 
 
 
 
 18 
 
 
 
 
 Hospira Infusion Systems (HIS) (j) 
 
 
 
 Various 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 97 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,158 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 403 
 
 
 
 
 
 (92 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (92 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 Total Lyrica (b) 
 
 
 
 Epilepsy, post-herpetic neuralgia and diabetic peripheral neuropathy, fibromyalgia, neuropathic pain due to spinal cord injury 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 5,065 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 4,966 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 4,839 
 
 
 
 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 3 
 
 
 
 
 
 3 
 
 
 
 
 
 4 
 
 
 
 
 Total Viagra (c) 
 
 
 
 Erectile dysfunction 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,204 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,564 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,708 
 
 
 
 
 
 (23 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (22 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (8 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (7 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Total Alliance revenues 
 
 
 
 Various 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 2,927 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,746 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,312 
 
 
 
 
 
 68 
 
 
 
 
 
 68 
 
 
 
 
 
 33 
 
 
 
 
 
 33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 The IH business encompasses Internal Medicine, Vaccines, Oncology, Inflammation & Immunology, Rare Disease and Consumer Healthcare. Through December 31, 2016, includes Duavive/Duavee and Viviant (recorded in All other Internal Medicine in 2016), which were transferred from Innovative Health to Essential Health effective January 1, 2017 (recorded in All other LEP (EH) beginning January 1, 2017), in order to align these products with our management of the women’s health portfolio within EH. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 Lyrica revenues from all of Europe, Russia, Turkey, Israel and Central Asia countries are included in Lyrica EH. All other Lyrica revenues are included in Lyrica IH. Total Lyrica revenues represent the aggregate of worldwide revenues from Lyrica IH and Lyrica EH. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 Viagra revenues from the U.S. and Canada are included in Viagra IH. All other Viagra revenues are included in Viagra EH. Total Viagra revenues represent the aggregate of worldwide revenues from Viagra IH and Viagra EH. Viagra lost exclusivity in the U.S. in December 2017. Beginning in the first quarter of 2018, revenues for Viagra in the U.S. and Canada, which were reported in IH through December 2017, will be reported in EH (which reported all other Viagra revenues excluding the U.S. and Canada through 2017). Therefore total Viagra worldwide revenues will be reported in EH from 2018 forward. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) 
 
 The EH business encompasses Legacy Established Products, Sterile Injectable Pharmaceuticals, Peri-LOE Products, Biosimilars, Pfizer CentreOne and HIS (through February 2, 2017), and includes all legacy Hospira commercial operations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (e) 
 
 Legacy Established Products primarily include products that have lost patent protection (excluding Sterile Injectable Pharmaceuticals and Peri-LOE Products). Effective January 1, 2017, All other LEP includes Duavive/Duavee and Viviant, which were transferred from Innovative Health (recorded in All other Internal Medicine (IH) in 2016), in order to align these products with our management of the women’s health portfolio within EH. See note (a) above. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (f) 
 
 Sterile Injectable Pharmaceuticals include generic injectables and proprietary specialty injectables (excluding Peri-LOE Products). 
 
 
 
 
 
 (g) 
 
 Peri-LOE Products include products that have recently lost or are anticipated to soon lose patent protection. These products primarily include: Lyrica in Europe, Russia, Turkey, Israel and Central Asia; Viagra in all countries (excluding the U.S. and Canada); and worldwide revenues for Celebrex, Pristiq, Zyvox, Vfend, Revatio and Inspra. Beginning in the first quarter of 2018, revenues for Viagra in the U.S. and Canada, which were reported in IH through December 2017, will be reported in EH. Therefore total Viagra worldwide revenues will be reported in EH from 2018 forward. See note (c) above. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (h) 
 
 Biosimilars include Inflectra/Remsima (biosimilar infliximab) in the U.S. and certain international markets, Nivestim (biosimilar filgrastim) in certain European, Asian and Africa/Middle Eastern markets and Retacrit (biosimilar epoetin zeta) in certain European and Africa/Middle Eastern markets. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (i) 
 
 Pfizer CentreOne includes revenues from our contract manufacturing and active pharmaceutical ingredient sales operation, including sterile injectables contract manufacturing, and revenues related to our manufacturing and supply agreements, including with Zoetis Inc. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (j) 
 
 HIS (through February 2, 2017) includes Medication Management Systems products composed of infusion pumps and related software and services, as well as IV Infusion Products, including large volume IV solutions and their associated administration sets. 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 Indicates calculation not meaningful or result is equal to or greater than 100%. 
 We performed certain reclassifications, primarily between Legacy Established Products and Sterile Injectable Pharmaceuticals, to conform to current period presentation. 
 
 Revenues—Selected Product Discussion 
 Compared to 2016, total revenues for 2017 were unfavorably impacted by approximately $200 million as a result of 2017 having one less selling day in both U.S. and international markets. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13 (IH) worldwide revenues decrease d operationally in 2017 , compared to 2016 . Foreign exchange had a de minimis impact on worldwide revenues in 2017 , compared to 2016 . 
 In the U.S., revenues for Prevnar 13 decrease d 9% in 2017 , compared to 2016 , primarily due to the expected decline in revenues for the adult indication in the U.S. due to a high initial capture rate of the eligible population following its successful fourth-quarter 2014 launch, which resulted in a smaller remaining “catch up” opportunity (i.e., the opportunity to reach adults age 65 and older who have not been previously vaccinated with Prevnar 13) compared to prior year, partially offset by growth from the pediatric indication. We expect revenues 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 27 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 from the adult indication in the U.S. to be flat to declining as the remaining cohort of adults 65 years and over is much more difficult to capture. 
 Internationally, revenues for Prevenar 13 increase d 10% operationally in 2017 , compared to 2016 , primarily due to the favorable overall impact of timing and increased volume associated with government purchases in certain emerging markets for the pediatric indication compared with prior year, as well as from the inclusion of Prevenar 13 in additional national immunization programs in certain emerging markets for the adult and pediatric indications in the fourth of quarter 2017. Foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of 1% on international revenues in 2017 , compared to 2016 . 
 In 2014, the ACIP voted to recommend Prevnar 13 for routine use to help protect adults aged 65 years and older against pneumococcal disease, which for adults includes pneumonia caused by the 13 pneumococcal serotypes included in the vaccine. These ACIP recommendations were subsequently approved by the directors at the CDC and U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, and were published in the Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report in September 2014 by the CDC. As with other vaccines, the CDC regularly monitors the impact of vaccination and reviews the recommendations; in this case, however, the CDC announced formally that it will conduct this review in 2018, which commenced at a meeting in February 2018. A potential adverse change in the ACIP recommendation could negatively impact future Prevnar 13 revenues. Currently, we are working with a number of U.S. investigators to monitor the proportion of community-acquired pneumonia caused by the serotypes included in Prevnar 13 and continue to observe trends. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Lyrica (EH (revenues from all of Europe, Russia, Turkey, Israel and Central Asia)/IH (revenues from all other geographies)) worldwide revenues increase d operationally in 2017 , compared to 2016 . Foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on worldwide revenues in 2017 , compared to 2016 . 
 In the U.S., Lyrica revenues increase d 10% in 2017 , compared to 2016 , driven by sustained demand and positive price impact. 
 Internationally, Lyrica revenues decrease d 11% operationally in 2017 , compared to 2016 , primarily due to losses of exclusivity in developed Europe markets. Foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of 1% on international revenues in 2017 , compared to 2016 . 
 Lyrica revenues in our IH segment increase d operationally in 2017 , compared to 2016 , primarily driven by sustained demand and positive price impact in the U.S. Foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on worldwide revenues in 2017 , compared to 2016 . 
 In our EH segment, worldwide revenues from Lyrica decrease d operationally in 2017 , compared to 2016 , due to losses of exclusivity in developed Europe markets. Foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on worldwide revenues in 2017 , compared to 2016 . 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Ibrance (IH) worldwide revenues, most of which were recorded in the U.S., increase d operationally in 2017 , compared to 2016 . The significant revenue growth reflects Ibrance class leadership among cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors in major markets with continuous share uptake in the U.S. and launches in major international markets supported by our scientific/clinical data and continued positive patient experience. Foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on worldwide revenues in 2017 , compared to 2016 . 
 International revenues increase d over 100% operationally in 2017 , compared to 2016 , but were negatively impacted by a one-time price adjustment to 2017 revenues in certain developed Europe markets related to finalizing reimbursement agreements in these markets. These agreements establish pricing levels comparable to European pricing analogues for oncology products, ensure patient access and are expected to drive future growth in these markets. Despite the one-time impact, underlying Ibrance volumes in developed Europe increased. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Enbrel (IH, outside the U.S. and Canada) worldwide revenues, excluding the U.S. and Canada, decrease d operationally in 2017 , compared to 2016 , primarily due to ongoing biosimilar competition in most developed Europe markets, which is expected to continue. Foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on worldwide revenues in 2017 , compared to 2016 . 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Lipitor (EH) worldwide revenues increase d operationally in 2017 , compared to 2016 . Foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on worldwide revenues in 2017 , compared to 2016 . In the U.S., revenues decrease d 2% in 2017 , compared to 2016 , primarily due to lower volumes, partially offset by favorable rebates. 
 In our international markets, revenues increase d 12% operationally in 2017 , compared to 2016 , driven by increased demand in China, partially offset by pricing pressures in China and Europe. Foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of 2% on international revenues in 2017 , compared to 2016 . 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Xeljanz (IH) worldwide revenues increase d operationally in 2017 , compared to 2016 . In the U.S., Xeljanz revenues increase d 41% in 2017 , compared to 2016 , primarily driven by increased adoption among rheumatologists, growing awareness among patients and improvements in payer access. In our international markets, revenues increase d 76% operationally in 2017 , compared to 2016 , primarily driven by continued uptake in Japan, Canada and certain emerging markets and, to a lesser extent, the impact of new launches in certain developed Europe markets. Foreign exchange had a de minimis impact on worldwide revenues and an unfavorable impact of 1% on international revenues in 2017 , compared to 2016 . 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Viagra (IH (U.S. and Canada revenues)/EH (all other revenues excluding U.S. and Canada)) worldwide revenues decrease d operationally in 2017 , compared to 2016 . The worldwide decrease in 2017 , compared to 2016 , was primarily due to a 31% decrease in the U.S. driven by generic competition that began in December 2017. Foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on worldwide revenues in 2017 , compared to 2016 . 
 International revenues increase d 2% operationally in 2017 , compared to 2016 , primarily from increased demand in emerging markets, mainly China and certain Middle Eastern markets, partially offset by price reductions in China. Foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of 2% on international revenues in 2017 , compared to 2016 . 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 BeneFIX and ReFacto AF/Xyntha (IH)––BeneFIX worldwide revenues decrease d operationally in 2017 , compared to 2016 , primarily as a result of erosion of market share in the U.S. and European countries due to increasing adoption of extended half-life treatment options. Foreign exchange had a de minimis impact on worldwide revenues in 2017 , compared to 2016 . 
 ReFacto AF/Xyntha worldwide revenues were relatively flat operationally in 2017 , compared to 2016 . ReFacto AF/Xyntha worldwide revenues were favorably impacted by increased product demand in certain emerging markets, offset by declines in developed Europe markets, primarily driven by increasing adoption of extended half-life treatment options. Foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on worldwide revenues in 2017 , compared to 2016 . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 28 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Sutent (IH) worldwide revenues decrease d operationally in 2017 , compared to 2016 . The decrease was primarily due to competitive pressure in the U.S. and Europe and cost containment measures in certain developed international markets, partially offset by increased performance in certain emerging markets. Foreign exchange had a de minimis impact on worldwide revenues in 2017 , compared to 2016 . 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Chantix/Champix (IH) worldwide revenues increase d operationally in 2017 , compared to 2016 . Foreign exchange had a de minimis impact on worldwide revenues in 2017 , compared to 2016 . 
 In the U.S., Chantix revenues increase d 24% in 2017 , compared to 2016 , primarily due to increased promotional activities , educating healthcare providers on updates to the Chantix label, including removal of the boxed warning, the addition of EAGLES safety and efficacy data, improved patient access and positive price impact. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The Premarin family of products (EH) worldwide revenues decrease d operationally in 2017 , compared to 2016 . Foreign exchange had a de minimis impact on worldwide revenues in 2017 , compared to 2016 . Revenues in the U.S. decrease d 4% in 2017 , compared to 2016 , primarily driven by lower volume, partially offset by a positive price impact. 
 Internationally, Premarin revenues decrease d 9% operationally in 2017 , compared to 2016 , primarily due to lower volumes, partially offset by price increases. Foreign exchange had a favorable impact of 2% on international revenues in 2017 , compared to 2016 . 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Norvasc (EH) worldwide revenues decrease d operationally in 2017 , compared to 2016 . The decrease was primarily driven by generic competition in Japan, pricing pressures in China and lower volumes in certain Middle Eastern markets, partially offset by increased demand in China. Foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on worldwide revenues in 2017 , compared to 2016 . 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Celebrex (EH) worldwide revenues increase d operationally in 2017 , compared to 2016 . The increase was primarily driven by favorable pricing in the U.S. and volume growth in emerging markets, primarily China, partially offset by generic competition in the U.S. and pricing pressures in Mexico. Foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on worldwide revenues in 2017 , compared to 2016 . 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Xalkori (IH) worldwide revenues increase d operationally in 2017 , compared to 2016 , as a result of a steady increase in diagnostic rates for the ALK gene mutation across key markets outside the U.S., which has led to more patients being treated as well as increased use in first line indication. This increase was partially offset by volume declines in the U.S. and Japan due to competitive pressure, partially mitigated by the March 2016 FDA approval of the supplemental NDA to treat patients with metastatic NSCLC whose tumors are ROS1-positive as detected by an FDA-approved test. Foreign exchange had a de minimis impact on worldwide revenues in 2017 , compared to 2016 . 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Inflectra/Remsima (EH) worldwide revenues increase d operationally in 2017 , compared to 2016 . The increase was due to the U.S. launch in the fourth quarter of 2016 and continued uptake in developed markets in Europe, partially offset by pricing pressures in developed Europe markets. Foreign exchange had a favorable impact on worldwide revenues in 2017 , compared to 2016 . 
 Inflectra uptake in the U.S. is being driven by a number of factors including Inflectra’s clinical data package, patient support programs, price and the access/reimbursement environment. To date, reimbursement coverage has been mixed. While we achieved 100% Medicare coverage, we have experienced access challenges among commercial payers where our lower priced product has not received access at parity to the innovator product and remains in a disadvantaged position despite the higher price of innovator product. We will look at all relevant factors impacting reimbursement given our extensive experience working with commercial payers to enable greater access for Inflectra. Additionally, in September 2017, Pfizer filed suit in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania against J&J alleging that J&J’s exclusionary contracts and other anticompetitive practices concerning Remicade® (infliximab) violate federal antitrust laws. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Inlyta (IH) worldwide revenues decrease d operationally in 2017 , compared to 2016 , primarily due to increased competition in the U.S., Europe and Japan, partially offset by performance in key emerging markets. Foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on worldwide revenues in 2017 , compared to 2016 . 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Pristiq (EH) worldwide revenues decrease d operationally in 2017 , compared to 2016 , primarily due to loss of exclusivity in the U.S. in March 2017. Foreign exchange had a de minimis impact on worldwide revenues in 2017 , compared to 2016 . 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Zyvox (EH) worldwide revenues decrease d operationally in 2017 , compared to 2016 , due to generic competition in developed international markets and the U.S. and corresponding pricing pressures, partially offset by volume growth in China. Foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on worldwide revenues in 2017 , compared to 2016 . 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Eucrisa (IH) is approved in the U.S. for the treatment of mild to moderate atopic dermatitis for patients two years of age and older. The FDA approved Eucrisa on December 14, 2016, and Eucrisa was launched in the U.S. late in the first quarter of 2017 . Eucrisa is a non-steroidal topical ointment and is the first topical prescription treatment for atopic dermatitis approved in over 10 years. Prescription volume continued to strengthen steadily throughout 2017 supported by the launch of our direct-to-consumer campaign in the third quarter of 2017. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Alliance revenues (IH/EH) increase d operationally in 2017 , compared to 2016 , mainly due to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 an increase in Eliquis alliance revenues due to higher demand resulting from increased market penetration of novel oral anticoagulants and market share gains; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 an increase in Xtandi alliance revenues of $450 million in the U.S. resulting from the September 2016 acquisition of Medivation. While 2017 revenue growth did not reflect volume growth due to higher demand through patient assistance programs (which provide free medicines to patients), we believe that the demand for patient assistance as a percentage of total demand will decrease in 2018 as compared to 2017. 
 Foreign exchange had a de minimis impact on worldwide alliance revenues in 2017 , compared to 2016 . 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 Eliquis (IH) has been jointly developed and is commercialized by Pfizer and BMS. Pfizer funds between 50% and 60% of all development costs depending on the study. Profits and losses are shared equally on a global basis, except in certain countries where Pfizer commercializes Eliquis and pays BMS compensation based on a percentage of net sales. We have full commercialization rights in certain smaller markets. BMS supplies the product to us at cost plus a percentage of the net sales to end-customers in these markets. Eliquis is part of the Novel Oral Anticoagulant (NOAC) market; the agents in this class were developed as alternative treatment options to warfarin in appropriate patients. 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 Xtandi (IH) is being developed and commercialized through a collaboration with Astellas. The two companies share equally in the gross profits (losses) related to U.S. net sales of Xtandi. Subject to certain exceptions, Pfizer and Astellas also share equally all Xtandi 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 29 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 commercialization costs attributable to the U.S. market. Pfizer and Astellas also share certain development and other collaboration expenses and Pfizer receives tiered royalties as a percentage of international Xtandi net sales (recorded in Other (income)/deductions—net ). 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 Bavencio (IH) is being developed and commercialized in collaboration with Merck KGaA. Both companies jointly fund all development and commercialization costs, and split equally any profits generated from selling any anti-PD-L1 or anti-PD-1 products from this collaboration. Bavencio is currently approved in metastatic MCC in the U.S., Europe and Japan as well as received accelerated approval for second line treatment of locally advanced or metastatic UC in the U.S. 
 See the “Our Operating Environment—Industry-Specific Challenges—Intellectual Property Rights and Collaboration/Licensing Rights” section of this Financial Review for information regarding the expiration of various contract and patent rights. 
 
 See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 17. Commitments and Contingencies for a discussion of recent developments concerning patent and product litigation relating to certain of the products discussed above. 
 
 PRODUCT DEVELOPMENTS—BIOPHARMACEUTICAL 
 We continue to invest in R&D to provide potential future sources of revenues through the development of new products, as well as through additional uses for in-line and alliance products. Notwithstanding our efforts, there are no assurances as to when, or if, we will receive regulatory approval for additional indications for existing products or any of our other products in development. 
 We continue to strengthen our global R&D organization and pursue strategies intended to improve innovation and overall productivity in R&D to achieve a sustainable pipeline that will deliver value in the near term and over time. 
 For additional information about our R&D organization, including the EH R&D organization, our R&D priorities and areas of focus, see the “Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook—Our Strategy—Description of Research and Development Operations” section of this Financial Review. 
 A comprehensive update of Pfizer’s development pipeline as of January 30, 2018 is available at www.pfizer.com/science/drug-product-pipeline. It includes an overview of our research and a list of compounds in development with targeted indication and phase of development, as well as mechanism of action for some candidates in Phase 1 and all candidates from Phase 2 through registration. 
 The following series of tables provides information about significant regulatory actions by, and filings pending with, the FDA and regulatory authorities in the EU and Japan, as well as additional indications and new drug candidates in late-stage development. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 RECENT FDA APPROVALS 
 
 
 PRODUCT 
 
 INDICATION 
 
 DATE APPROVED 
 
 
 Steglatro (ertugliflozin) 
 
 An adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus, which is being developed in collaboration with Merck 
 
 December 2017 
 
 
 Segluromet (ertugliflozin and metformin) 
 
 An adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus who are not adequately controlled on a regimen containing ertugliflozin or metformin, or in patients who are already treated with both ertugliflozin and metformin, which is being developed in collaboration with Merck 
 
 December 2017 
 
 
 Steglujan (ertugliflozin and sitagliptin) 
 
 An adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus when treatment with both ertugliflozin and sitagliptin is appropriate, which is being developed in collaboration with Merck 
 
 December 2017 
 
 
 Bosulif (bosutinib) 
 
 
 Treatment of adult patients with newly-diagnosed chronic phase Philadelphia chromosome-positive Ph+ CML, which is being developed in collaboration with Avillion 
 
 December 2017 
 
 
 Xeljanz (tofacitinib) and Xeljanz XR 
 
 Xeljanz 5 mg twice daily and Xeljanz XR extended release 11 mg once daily for the treatment of adult patients with active psoriatic arthritis who have had an inadequate response or intolerance to methotrexate or other disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs 
 
 December 2017 
 
 
 Ixifi (PF-06438179, infliximab-qbtx) (a) 
 
 A biosimilar to Remicade® (infliximab) for all eligible indications of the reference product 
 
 December 2017 
 
 
 Sutent (sunitinib) 
 
 Adjuvant treatment in adult patients at high risk of recurrent renal cell carcinoma following nephrectomy (surgical removal of the cancerous kidney) 
 
 November 2017 
 
 
 Lyrica (pregabalin) 
 
 Extended-release tablets CV as once-daily therapy for the management of neuropathic pain associated with diabetic peripheral neuropathy and the management of post-herpetic neuralgia 
 
 October 2017 
 
 
 Mylotarg (gemtuzumab ozogamicin) 
 
 Treatment of adults with newly diagnosed CD33-positive acute myeloid leukemia (AML), and adults and children 2 years and older with relapsed or refractory CD33-positive AML 
 
 September 2017 
 
 
 Besponsa (inotuzumab ozogamicin) 
 
 Treatment of adults with relapsed or refractory CD22-positive B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia 
 
 August 2017 
 
 
 Bavencio (avelumab) 
 
 Treatment for patients with locally advanced or metastatic UC with disease progression on or after platinum-based therapy, which is being developed in collaboration with Merck KGaA, Germany 
 
 May 2017 
 
 
 Bavencio (avelumab) 
 
 Treatment of adults and pediatric patients 12 years and older with metastatic Merkel cell carcinoma, which is being developed in collaboration with Merck KGaA, Germany 
 
 March 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 Remicade ® is a registered trademark of Janssen. In February 2016, we divested the rights for development and commercialization of PF-06438179, a potential biosimilar to Remicade ® (infliximab) in the 28 countries that form the EEA to Sandoz, which was a condition to the European 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 30 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Commission’s approval of the acquisition of Hospira in 2015. We retain commercialization rights to PF-06438179 in all countries outside of the EEA. We do not currently plan to launch Ixifi in the U.S. and are evaluating strategic options for this product. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PENDING U.S. NDAs AND SUPPLEMENTAL FILINGS 
 
 
 PRODUCT 
 
 PROPOSED INDICATION 
 
 DATE FILED* 
 
 
 lorlatinib (PF-06463922) 
 
 Treatment of patients with ALK-positive metastatic non-small cell lung cancer, previously treated with one or more ALK inhibitors 
 
 February 2018 
 
 
 Filgrastim (a) 
 
 A potential biosimilar to Neupogen® (filgrastim) 
 
 November 2017 
 
 
 PF-05280014 (b) 
 
 A potential biosimilar to Herceptin® (trastuzumab) 
 
 August 2017 
 
 
 Xeljanz (tofacitinib) 
 
 Treatment of adult patients with moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis 
 
 July 2017 
 
 
 Retacrit (c) 
 
 A potential biosimilar to Epogen® and Procrit® (epoetin alfa) 
 
 February 2015 
 
 
 tafamidis meglumine (d) 
 
 Treatment of transthyretin familial amyloid polyneuropathy 
 
 February 2012 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 The dates set forth in this column are the dates on which the FDA accepted our submissions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 Neupogen® is a registered trademark of Amgen, Inc. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 Herceptin ® is a registered trademark of Genentech, Inc. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 Epogen ® is a registered U.S. trademark of Amgen Inc.; Procrit ® is a registered U.S. trademark of J&J. In October 2015, we received a “complete response” letter from the FDA with respect to our biologics license application (BLA) for Retacrit, our proposed biosimilar to epoetin alfa, which was submitted for all indications of the reference product. In December 2016, we completed the resubmission of the BLA to the FDA for Retacrit in response to the “complete response” letter. In May 2017, the FDA’s Oncologic Drugs Advisory Committee (ODAC) voted to recommend Retacrit for approval. In June 2017, we received a “complete response” letter from the FDA, relating to matters noted in a Warning Letter issued in February 2017 following a routine inspection of the company’s facility in McPherson, Kansas in 2016. This facility was listed as the potential manufacturing site in the BLA for the proposed epoetin alfa biosimilar. In November 2017, Pfizer resubmitted the BLA to the FDA for Retacrit in response to the “complete response” letter. In January 2018, the FDA upgraded the status of Pfizer’s McPherson, Kansas manufacturing facility to VAI based on an October 2017 inspection. The change to VAI status will lift the compliance hold that the FDA placed on approval of Pfizer pending applications, and will permit review of the BLA for the proposed epoetin alfa biosimilar. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) 
 
 In May 2012, the FDA’s Peripheral and Central Nervous System Drugs Advisory Committee voted that the tafamidis meglumine data provide substantial evidence of efficacy for a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict a clinical benefit. In June 2012, the FDA issued a “complete response” letter with respect to the tafamidis NDA. The FDA has requested the completion of a second efficacy study, and also has asked for additional information on the data within the current tafamidis NDA. Pfizer initiated study B3461028 in December 2013, a global Phase 3 study to support a potential new indication in transthyretin cardiomyopathy, which includes transthyretin familial amyloid cardiomyopathy (TTR-FAC) and wild-type cardiomyopathy (WT-CM). We anticipate results from this study in 2018, and continue to work with the FDA to identify next steps. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 31 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 REGULATORY APPROVALS AND FILINGS IN THE EU AND JAPAN 
 
 
 PRODUCT 
 
 DESCRIPTION OF EVENT 
 
 DATE APPROVED 
 
 DATE FILED* 
 
 
 lorlatinib (PF-06463922) 
 
 Application filed in Japan for the treatment of patients with ALK-positive metastatic non-small cell lung cancer, previously treated with one or more ALK inhibitor 
 
 — 
 
 February 2018 
 
 
 lorlatinib (PF-06463922) 
 
 Application filed in the EU for the treatment of patients with ALK-positive metastatic non-small cell lung cancer, previously treated with one or more ALK inhibitors 
 
 — 
 
 February 2018 
 
 
 Xeljanz (tofacitinib) 
 
 Application filed in the EU for treatment of psoriatic arthritis 
 
 — 
 
 September 2017 
 
 
 Ibrance (palbociclib) 
 
 Approval in Japan for Ibrance in combination with endocrine therapy for the treatment of HR+, HER2- inoperable or recurrent breast cancer 
 
 September 2017 
 
 — 
 
 
 Bavencio (avelumab) 
 
 Approval in Japan for the treatment of curatively unresectable Merkel cell carcinoma, which is being developed in collaboration with Merck KGaA, Germany 
 
 September 2017 
 
 — 
 
 
 Bavencio (avelumab) 
 
 Approval in the EU for the treatment of adult patients with metastatic Merkel cell carcinoma, which is being developed in collaboration with Merck KGaA, Germany 
 
 September 2017 
 
 — 
 
 
 Xeljanz (tofacitinib) 
 
 Application filed in the EU for the treatment of ulcerative colitis 
 
 — 
 
 August 2017 
 
 
 Bosulif (bosutinib) 
 
 Application filed in the EU for the treatment of patients with newly diagnosed chronic phase Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myeloid leukemia, which is being developed in collaboration with Avillion 
 
 — 
 
 August 2017 
 
 
 PF-06438179 (a) 
 
 Application filed in Japan for a potential biosimilar to Remicade® (infliximab) 
 
 — 
 
 August 2017 
 
 
 PF-05280014 (b) 
 
 Application filed in the EU for a potential biosimilar to Herceptin® (trastuzumab) 
 
 — 
 
 July 2017 
 
 
 Besponsa (inotuzumab ozogamicin) 
 
 Approval in the EU for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory CD22-positive B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia 
 
 June 2017 
 
 — 
 
 
 Trumenba 
 
 Approval in the EU for a prophylactic vaccine for active immunization to prevent invasive disease caused by Neisseria meningitidis serogroup B in individuals 10 years of age and older 
 
 May 2017 
 
 — 
 
 
 Xalkori (crizotinib) 
 
 Approval in Japan for the treatment of ROS1-positive non-small cell lung cancer 
 
 May 2017 
 
 — 
 
 
 Xeljanz (tofacitinib) 
 
 Application filed in Japan for the treatment of ulcerative colitis 
 
 — 
 
 May 2017 
 
 
 Sutent (sunitinib) 
 
 Application filed in the EU for the adjuvant treatment in adult patients at high risk of recurrent renal cell carcinoma following nephrectomy 
 
 — 
 
 April 2017 
 
 
 inotuzumab ozogamicin 
 
 Application filed in Japan for the treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukemia 
 
 — 
 
 April 2017 
 
 
 Xeljanz (tofacitinib) 
 
 Approval in the EU for Xeljanz in combination with methotrexate for the treatment of moderate to severe active rheumatoid arthritis in adult patients who have responded inadequately to, or who are intolerant to one or more disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs. Xeljanz can be given as monotherapy in case of intolerance to methotrexate or when treatment with methotrexate is inappropriate 
 
 March 2017 
 
 — 
 
 
 ertugliflozin (c) 
 
 Application filed in the EU for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, which is being developed in collaboration with Merck 
 
 — 
 
 February 2017 
 
 
 Mylotarg (gemtuzumab ozogamicin) 
 
 Application filed in the EU for the treatment of acute myeloid leukemia 
 
 — 
 
 December 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 For applications in the EU, the dates set forth in this column are the dates on which the EMA validated our submissions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 Remicade ® is a registered trademark of Janssen. In February 2016, we divested the rights for development and commercialization of PF-06438179, a potential biosimilar to Remicade ® (infliximab) in the 28 countries that form the EEA to Sandoz, which was a condition to the European Commission’s approval of the Hospira transaction. We retain commercialization rights to PF-06438179 in all countries outside of the EEA. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 Herceptin ® is a registered trademark of Genentech, Inc. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 In January 2018, the EMA’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use issued an opinion recommending that ertugliflozin be granted approval for the treatment of type 2 diabetes . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 32 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 LATE-STAGE CLINICAL PROGRAMS FOR ADDITIONAL USES AND DOSAGE FORMS FOR IN-LINE AND IN-REGISTRATION PRODUCTS 
 
 
 PRODUCT 
 
 PROPOSED INDICATION 
 
 
 Bavencio (avelumab) 
 
 A monoclonal antibody that inhibits PD-L1, in combination with Inlyta (axitinib), a tyrosine kinase inhibitor, for the first-line treatment of advanced renal cell carcinoma, which is being developed in collaboration with Merck KGaA, Germany 
 
 
 Bavencio (avelumab) 
 
 A monoclonal antibody that inhibits PD-L1 for the first-line treatment of stage IIIb/IV non-small cell lung cancer, which is being developed in collaboration with Merck KGaA, Germany 
 
 
 Bavencio (avelumab) (a) 
 
 A monoclonal antibody that inhibits PD-L1 for treatment of stage IIIb/IV non-small cell lung cancer that has progressed after a platinum-containing doublet, which is being developed in collaboration with Merck KGaA, Germany 
 
 
 Bavencio (avelumab) 
 
 A monoclonal antibody that inhibits PD-L1 for treatment of platinum-resistant/refractory ovarian cancer, which is being developed in collaboration with Merck KGaA, Germany 
 
 
 Bavencio (avelumab) 
 
 A monoclonal antibody that inhibits PD-L1 for the first-line treatment of ovarian cancer, which is being developed in collaboration with Merck KGaA, Germany 
 
 
 Bavencio (avelumab) 
 
 A monoclonal antibody that inhibits PD-L1 for maintenance treatment, in the first-line setting, for patients with urothelial cancer, which is being developed in collaboration with Merck KGaA, Germany 
 
 
 Bavencio (avelumab) 
 
 A monoclonal antibody that inhibits PD-L1 for maintenance treatment of advanced or metastatic gastric/ gastro-esophageal junction cancers, which is being developed in collaboration with Merck KGaA, Germany 
 
 
 Bavencio (avelumab) 
 
 A monoclonal antibody that inhibits PD-L1 for treatment of locally advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck, which is being developed in collaboration with Merck KGaA, Germany 
 
 
 Inlyta (axitinib) 
 
 Adjuvant treatment of renal cell carcinoma, which is being developed in collaboration with SFJ 
 
 
 Ibrance (palbociclib) 
 
 Treatment of HER2+ advanced breast cancer, in collaboration with the Alliance Foundation Trials, LLC 
 
 
 Ibrance (palbociclib) 
 
 Treatment of high-risk early breast cancer, in collaboration with the German Breast Group 
 
 
 Ibrance (palbociclib) 
 
 Treatment of HR+ early breast cancer, in collaboration with the Alliance Foundation Trials, LLC, and the Austrian Breast Colorectal Cancer Study Group 
 
 
 Xtandi (enzalutamide) 
 
 Treatment of non-metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer 
 
 
 Xtandi (enzalutamide) 
 
 Treatment of non-metastatic high risk hormone-sensitive prostate cancer 
 
 
 Xtandi (enzalutamide) 
 
 Treatment of metastatic hormone-sensitive prostate cancer 
 
 
 Vyndaqel (tafamidis meglumine) 
 
 Adult symptomatic transthyretin cardiomyopathy 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 As noted in our February 2018 press release, we and our partner Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany, announced that the Bavencio Phase 3 trial in second-line NSCLC did not meet its pre-specified primary endpoint. We are continuing to further evaluate the detailed results. 
 
 In November 2017, we and our partner Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany, announced that the Bavencio (avelumab) Phase 3 JAVELIN Gastric 300 trial did not meet its primary endpoint of superior overall survival with single-agent avelumab compared with physician's choice of chemotherapy. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 NEW DRUG CANDIDATES IN LATE-STAGE DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 CANDIDATE 
 
 PROPOSED INDICATION 
 
 
 dacomitinib 
 
 A pan-human epidermal growth factor receptor (HER) tyrosine kinase inhibitor for the first-line treatment of patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer with estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) activating mutations, which is being developed in collaboration with SFJ 
 
 
 lorlatinib (PF-06463922) 
 
 A next generation ALK/ROS1 tyrosine kinase inhibitor for the first-line treatment of patients with ALK-positive advanced non-small cell lung cancer 
 
 
 PF-04965842 
 
 A Janus kinase 1 (JAK1) inhibitor for the treatment of moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis 
 
 
 PF-06425090 
 
 A prophylactic vaccine for active immunization to prevent clostridium difficile colitis 
 
 
 PF-05280586 (a) 
 
 A potential biosimilar to Rituxan® (rituximab) 
 
 
 PF-06439535 (b) 
 
 A potential biosimilar to Avastin® (bevacizumab) 
 
 
 PF-06410293 (c) 
 
 A potential biosimilar to Humira® (adalimumab) 
 
 
 rivipansel (GMI-1070) 
 
 A pan-selectin inhibitor for the treatment of vaso-occlusive crisis in hospitalized individuals with sickle cell disease, which was licensed from GlycoMimetics Inc. 
 
 
 somatrogon (PF-06836922) 
 
 A long-acting hGH-CTP for the treatment of growth hormone deficiency in children, which is being developed in collaboration with OPKO 
 
 
 somatrogon (PF-06836922) 
 
 A long-acting hGH-CTP for the treatment of growth hormone deficiency in adults, which is being developed in collaboration with OPKO 
 
 
 talazoparib (MDV3800) 
 
 An oral PARP inhibitor for the treatment of patients with germline BRCA-mutated advanced breast cancer 
 
 
 talazoparib (MDV3800) 
 
 An oral PARP inhibitor for the treatment of metastatic castrate resistant prostate cancer 
 
 
 tanezumab 
 
 An anti-nerve growth factor monoclonal antibody for the treatment of pain, which is being developed in collaboration with Lilly 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 Rituxan ® is a registered trademark of Biogen MA Inc. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 Avastin ® is a registered trademark of Genentech, Inc. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 Humira ® is a registered trademark of AbbVie Biotechnology Ltd. 
 Additional product-related programs are in various stages of discovery and development. Also, see the discussion in the “Our Strategy––Our Business Development Initiatives” section of this Financial Review. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 33 
 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 COSTS AND EXPENSES 
 
 The changes in expenses below for 2017 v. 2016 reflect, among other things, the favorable impact of the February 2017 sale of HIS. The operating results of HIS are included in our operating results through February 2, 2017 and, therefore, operating results for 2017 include approximately one month of HIS domestic operations and approximately two months of HIS international operations, while operating results for 2016 reflect 12 months of HIS global operations. 
 The changes in expenses below for 2016 v. 2015 reflect, among other things, the unfavorable impact of the September 2015 acquisition of Hospira; specifically, the inclusion of a full year of legacy Hospira global operations in 2016, compared to the inclusion of four months of legacy Hospira U.S. operations and three months of legacy Hospira international operations in 2015. 
 Cost of Sales 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 17/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 16/15 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 11,240 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 12,329 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 9,648 
 
 
 
 
 
 (9 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 28 
 
 
 As a percentage of Revenues 
 
 
 
 21.4 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 23.3 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 19.7 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 v. 2016 
 Cost of sales decreased 9% in 2017 , compared to 2016 , primarily due to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the favorable impact of the sale of HIS global operations (which carried a higher cost of sales than other products) of $561 million; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 recognition of synergies related to our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the nonrecurring unfavorable impact of $248 million of acquired Hospira inventory, which is measured at fair value on the acquisition date and was amortized over the turn of the related inventory; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the favorable impact of foreign exchange of $140 million and the favorable offset of hedging gains of $52 million ; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 a favorable change in product mix, including an operational decline in the SIP portfolio and the favorability attributed to products that have lost exclusivity, 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 $195 million in inventory losses, overhead costs related to the period in which our Puerto Rico plants were not operational, and incremental costs to date, all of which resulted from the recent hurricanes in Puerto Rico. 
 The decrease in Cost of sales as a percentage of revenues in 2017 , compared to 2016 , was primarily due to all of the factors discussed above, as well as an increase in alliance revenues, which have no associated cost of sales. 
 2016 v. 2015 
 Cost of sales increased 28% in 2016 , compared to 2015 , primarily due to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the unfavorable impact of the Hospira acquisition; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the growth in revenues from key innovative brands as well as the growth in the legacy Pfizer Sterile Injectable Pharmaceuticals portfolio; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 production variances driven by changes in product mix, including products which have lost exclusivity and manufacturing production issues at certain sites (up approximately $300 million); 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 an increase in costs associated with our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives including plant network strategy (approximately $200 million); and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of 3% or approximately $410 million in 2016 . 
 The increase in Cost of sales as a percentage of Revenues in 2016 , compared to 2015 , was primarily due to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 an unfavorable change in product mix due to (i) the unfavorable impact of the Hospira acquisition, with products that carry a higher cost, as well as the impact of acquired Hospira inventory which was measured at fair value on the acquisition date and amortized over the turn of the related inventory; and (ii) the impact of losses of exclusivity on products which formerly had a higher gross margin; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the unfavorable impact of costs incurred to implement our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives (not related to acquisitions) in 2016, compared to 2015, 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 a favorable change in product mix related to legacy Pfizer products, excluding the impact of losses of exclusivity on products referred to above; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 non-recurring charges of $72 million related to manufacturing plant pension obligations and non-recurring charges of $72 million related to inventory impairment in Venezuela in 2015 related to the foreign currency change described in the “Global Economic Conditions—Venezuela Operations” section in this Financial Review. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 34 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Selling, Informational and Administrative (SI&A) Expenses 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 17/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 16/15 
 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 14,784 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 14,837 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 14,809 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 As a percentage of Revenues 
 
 
 
 28.1 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 28.1 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 30.3 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 v. 2016 
 SI&A expenses were relatively flat in 2017 , compared to 2016 , primarily due to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the non-recurrence of an allowance for doubtful trade accounts receivable of approximately $265 million, resulting from unfavorable developments with a distributor that was recorded in the first quarter of 2016 ; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 lower advertising, promotional and field force expenses, reflecting the benefits of cost-reduction and productivity initiatives; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 lower spending for certain products, primarily Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the favorable impact of the sale of HIS global operations of $135 million; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 lower spending for Viagra due to the loss of exclusivity in December 2017, 
 offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 additional investment across several of our key products, primarily Eucrisa, Ibrance and Xeljanz, as well as biosimilars, primarily related to the U.S. launch of Inflectra; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 an increase in charitable contributions, including a $200 million charitable contribution to the Pfizer Foundation, an organization that provides grant and investment funding to support organizations and social entrepreneurs in an effort to improve healthcare delivery. 
 2016 v. 2015 
 
 SI&A expenses were relatively flat in 2016 , compared to 2015 , primarily due to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 an increase in the allowance for doubtful trade accounts receivable, resulting from unfavorable developments with a distributor (approximately $280 million); 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the unfavorable impact of the Hospira acquisition; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 additional investment across several of our key products, 
 offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the non-recurrence of a $419 million charge related to the settlement of pension obligations in accordance with an offer to certain terminated employees who are vested in their pension benefits to elect a lump-sum payment or annuity of their deferred vested pension benefits in 2015; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the favorable impact of foreign exchange of 2% in 2016. 
 
 Research and Development (R&D) Expenses 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 17/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 16/15 
 
 
 Research and development expenses 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 7,657 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 7,872 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 7,690 
 
 
 
 
 
 (3 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 2 
 
 
 As a percentage of Revenues 
 
 
 
 14.6 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 14.9 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 15.7 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 v. 2016 
 R&D expenses decreased 3% in 2017 , compared to 2016 , primarily due to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 lower expenses of approximately $743 million due to the discontinuation of the global clinical development program for bococizumab in the fourth quarter of 2016 and the non-recurrence of its associated close-out costs; 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 increased costs associated with our oncology programs, primarily clinical trial spend on Medivation assets; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 lower development funding credits of approximately $124 million primarily related to the discontinuation of the global clinical development program for bococizumab in the fourth quarter of 2016; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 increased costs associated with our C. difficile vaccine program, which initiated a Phase 3 clinical study in March 2017; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 an expense of $75 million resulting from our May 2017 agreement with Sangamo to develop and commercialize gene therapy programs for Hemophilia A; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 increased costs associated with late stage development programs, including Xtandi, talazoparib and tanezumab. 
 2016 v. 2015 
 R&D expenses increase d 2% in 2016 , compared to 2015 , primarily due to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 costs of approximately $260 million to close-out studies for the global clinical development program for bococizumab that was discontinued in the fourth quarter of 2016; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 35 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the unfavorable impact of the Hospira acquisition and increased investment in legacy Hospira biosimilar and sterile injectable development programs and, to a lesser extent, the inclusion of approximately six months of legacy Anacor operations and approximately three months of legacy Medivation operations; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 increased costs associated with our oncology programs, primarily our avelumab alliance with Merck KGaA, 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the non-recurrence of the $295 million upfront payment to OPKO in the first quarter of 2015 associated with a worldwide development and commercialization agreement; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 development funding of $272 million under which we had an obligation to perform contractual services related to certain clinical trials of bococizumab, Ibrance and rivipansel (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 2C. Acquisitions, Sale of Hospira Infusion Systems Net Assets, Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements, Equity-Method Investments and Cost-Method Investment: Research and Development and Collaboration Agreements ) . 
 For additional information on Cost of sales, SI&A and R&D expenses by operating segment, see the “Analysis of Operating Segment Information” section of this Financial Review. 
 
 Amortization of Intangible Assets 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 17/16 
 
 
 
 16/15 
 
 
 Amortization of intangible assets 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 4,758 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 4,056 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 3,728 
 
 
 
 
 
 17 
 
 
 
 9 
 
 
 As a percentage of Revenues 
 
 
 
 9.1 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 7.7 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 7.6 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization of intangible assets increased 17% in 2017 , compared to 2016 , primarily due to amortization expense of approximately $797 million (pre-tax) in 2017 associated with the identifiable intangible assets acquired from Medivation and Anacor, partially offset by assets that became fully amortized at the end of their estimated useful lives and the favorable impact of the February 2017 sale of HIS. 
 Amortization of intangible assets decreased 9% in 2016 , compared to 2015 , primarily due to the inclusion of a full year of amortization expense for the identifiable intangible assets acquired from legacy Hospira global operations in 2016, compared to the inclusion of only four months of legacy Hospira U.S. amortization expense and three months of legacy Hospira international amortization expense in 2015, as well as the inclusion of three months of amortization expense for the intangible assets acquired from legacy Medivation in 2016, partially offset by assets that became fully amortized at the end of their estimated useful lives. 
 
 See also Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 10A. Identifiable Intangible Assets and Goodwill: Identifiable Intangible Assets. 
 
 Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 17/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 16/15 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges––acquisition-related costs (a) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 109 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 211 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 479 
 
 
 
 
 
 (48 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (56 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Restructuring charges––cost reduction initiatives (b) 
 
 
 
 69 
 
 
 
 
 
 945 
 
 
 
 
 
 333 
 
 
 
 
 
 (93 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges 
 
 
 
 178 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,156 
 
 
 
 
 
 811 
 
 
 
 
 
 (85 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 43 
 
 
 
 
 Transaction costs 
 
 
 
 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 127 
 
 
 
 
 
 123 
 
 
 
 
 
 (97 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 3 
 
 
 
 
 Integration costs 
 
 
 
 305 
 
 
 
 
 
 441 
 
 
 
 
 
 218 
 
 
 
 
 
 (31 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 487 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,724 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,152 
 
 
 
 
 
 (72 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 50 
 
 
 
 
 Total additional depreciation––asset restructuring 
 
 
 
 91 
 
 
 
 
 
 207 
 
 
 
 
 
 122 
 
 
 
 
 
 (56 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 70 
 
 
 
 
 Total implementation costs 
 
 
 
 227 
 
 
 
 
 
 340 
 
 
 
 
 
 203 
 
 
 
 
 
 (33 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 67 
 
 
 
 
 Costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives (c) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 805 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 2,271 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,478 
 
 
 
 
 
 (65 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 Restructuring charges––acquisition-related costs include employee termination costs, exit costs and asset impairments associated with business combinations. For 2017 and 2016, restructuring charges––acquisition-related costs are primarily associated with our acquisitions of Hospira and Medivation. For 2015, restructuring charges––acquisition-related costs primarily relate to our acquisition of Hospira. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 Restructuring charges––cost reduction initiatives include employee termination costs, exit costs and asset impairments not associated with acquisitions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 Comprises Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs as well as costs associated with our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives included in Cost of sales , Research and development expenses and/or Selling, informational and administrative expenses , as appropriate. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 3. Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives. 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 Indicates calculation not meaningful or result is equal to or greater than 100%. 
 
 In connection with our acquisition of Hospira, we are focusing our efforts on achieving an appropriate cost structure for the combined company. We expect to achieve $1 billion of annual cost savings by 2018 in connection with the Hospira acquisition, 25% more than our initial cost savings target of $800 million , and have achieved approximately $720 million of cost savings through December 31, 2017. The one-time costs to generate the savings are expected to be approximately $1 billion (not including costs of $215 million for full-year 2015 associated with the return of acquired IPR&D rights), and the majority of these costs are expected to be incurred for the three-year period post-acquisition. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 36 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 In 2016, we substantially completed previously disclosed cost-reduction initiatives begun in 2014 associated with our global commercial structure reorganization, manufacturing plant network rationalization and optimization initiatives, and additional cost-reduction/productivity initiatives across the enterprise. Through December 31, 2016, we incurred $3.1 billion (pre-tax) in total costs for the 2014-2016 program. The cumulative ongoing annual cost savings associated with the 2014-2016 program (but not including expected cost savings associated with the Hospira acquisition), are approximately $3.1 billion. These savings were recognized, for the most part, through the end of 2016. However, savings from costs incurred in the last half of 2016 largely occurred in 2017. 
 
 New Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives — 2017 through 2019 Activities 
 As a result of the evaluation performed in connection with our decision in September 2016 to not pursue, at that time, splitting IH and EH into two separate publicly-traded companies, we have identified new opportunities to potentially achieve greater optimization and efficiency to become more competitive in our business. Therefore, we have initiated new enterprise-wide cost-reduction/productivity initiatives, which we expect to complete by the end of 2019. These initiatives will encompass all areas of our cost base and will include further centralization of our corporate and platform functions and optimization of our manufacturing plant network to support IH and EH products and pipelines, as well as activities in other areas where opportunities are identified. The action plans related to these new initiatives are underway and, in order to achieve targeted savings of approximately $1.4 billion by 2020, we expect to incur total costs of approximately $1.1 billion over the three year period, 2017-2019. Of this amount, we expect about 80% to be manufacturing operations related and we expect about 20% of the total charges will be non-cash. For additional information about these programs and expected and actual total costs, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 3. Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives . The expected cost savings in 2018 associated with these activities are reflected in our 2018 financial guidance. 
 
 In addition to these major initiatives, we continuously monitor our operations for cost reduction and/or productivity opportunities, especially in light of the losses of exclusivity and the expiration of collaborative arrangements for various products. 
 
 Other (Income)/Deductions––Net 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 17/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 16/15 
 
 
 Other (income)/deductions—net 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,315 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 3,655 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 2,860 
 
 
 
 
 
 (64 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 28 
 
 For information about the components of Other (income)/deductions—net , see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 4. Other (Income)/Deductions—Net. 
 
 See also the “Analysis of Operating Segment Information” section of this Financial Review. 
 
 PROVISION/(BENEFIT) FOR TAXES ON INCOME 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 17/16 
 
 
 
 16/15 
 
 
 
 
 Provision/(benefit) for taxes on income 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (9,049 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,123 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,990 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 (44 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Effective tax rate on continuing operations 
 
 
 
 (73.5 
 
 )% 
 
 
 
 13.4 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 22.2 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 Indicates calculation not meaningful or result is equal to or greater than 100%. 
 
 In all three years presented, our effective tax rate on continuing operations was impacted by favorable audit settlements and from the expiration of certain statutes of limitations in multiple jurisdictions covering various periods, among other factors. Our effective tax rate on continuing operations for 2017 was favorably impacted by the enactment of the TCJA. For details about these discrete elements that impacted our tax provisions, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 5A. Tax Matters: Taxes on Income from Continuing Operations . 
 2017 v. 2016 
 The lower effective tax rate in 2017 compared to 2016 was primarily the result of: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the tax benefits associated with the remeasurement of deferred tax liabilities, which includes the repatriation tax on deemed repatriated accumulated post-1986 earnings of foreign subsidiaries associated with the enactment of the TCJA; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 a favorable change in the jurisdictional mix of earnings as a result of operating fluctuations in the normal course of business, 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the decrease in benefits associated with the resolution of certain tax positions pertaining to prior years primarily with various foreign tax authorities and the expiration of certain statutes of limitations; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the non-recurrence of benefits related to the final resolution of an agreement in principle reached in February 2016 and finalized in April 2016 to resolve certain claims related to Protonix, which resulted in the receipt of information that raised our initial assessment in 2015 of the likelihood of prevailing on the technical merits of our tax position. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 37 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 v. 2015 
 The lower effective tax rate in 2016 compared to 2015 was primarily the result of: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the benefits related to the final resolution of an agreement in principle reached in February 2016 and finalized in April 2016 to resolve certain claims related to Protonix, which resulted in the receipt of information that raised our initial assessment in 2015 of the likelihood of prevailing on the technical merits of our tax position; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the non-recurrence of the non-deductibility of a foreign currency loss related to Venezuela; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the change in the jurisdictional mix of earnings as a result of operating fluctuations in the normal course of business; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the increase in benefits associated with the resolution of certain tax positions pertaining to prior years primarily with various foreign tax authorities, and the expiration of certain statutes of limitations; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the benefits related to the adoption of a new accounting standard in the fourth quarter of 2016, as of January 1, 2016, requiring excess tax benefits or deficiencies of share-based compensation to be recognized as a component of the Provision/(benefit) for taxes on income . The net tax benefit was $89 million in 2016 (See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 1B. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies: Adoption of New Accounting Standards in Pfizer’s 2016 Financial Report), 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the non-recurrence of tax benefits associated with certain tax initiatives. 
 Changes in Tax Laws 
 
 On December 22, 2017, the U.S. enacted significant changes to U.S. tax law following the passage and signing of the TCJA. The TCJA is complex and significantly changes the U.S. corporate income tax system by, among other things, reducing the Federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, transitioning U.S. international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a territorial tax system and imposing a repatriation tax on deemed repatriated accumulated post-1986 earnings of foreign subsidiaries. Given the significant changes resulting from and complexities associated with the TCJA, the estimated financial impacts for 2017 as well as the estimated impact on 2018 financial guidance for the effective tax rate on Adjusted income are provisional and subject to further analysis, interpretation and clarification of the TCJA, which could result in changes to these estimates during 2018. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 5A. Tax Matters: Taxes on Income from Continuing Operations and the “Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources––Selected Measures of Liquidity and Capital Resources—Contractual Obligations” section of this Financial Report. 
 
 On January 23, 2017, the Governor of Puerto Rico signed into law Act No. 3-2017, amending Section 2101 of the Puerto Rico Internal Revenue Code of 1994, which imposes an excise tax that was effective beginning in 2011 (Act 154). The excise tax is imposed on the purchase of products by multinational corporations and their affiliates from their Puerto Rico affiliates. As originally adopted, the excise tax was to be in effect from 2011 through 2016 and the tax rate was to decline over time from 4% in 2011 to 1% in 2016. Act No. 2-2013 extended the excise tax through 2017 and, effective July 1, 2013, increased the tax rate to 4% for all years through 2017. Act No. 3-2017 further extended the excise tax for all years through 2027 at a rate of 4%. The excise tax has been recorded in Cost of sales and Provision/(benefit) for taxes on income, as appropriate. All expected impacts in 2018 have been reflected in our financial guidance for 2018. 
 
 On December 18, 2015, the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes Act of 2015 (the 2015 Act) was signed into law and generally provides for the temporary or permanent extension, retroactive to January 1, 2015, of certain tax benefits and credits that had expired, including the U.S. R&D tax credit, which was extended permanently. Given the enactment date of the 2015 Act, the benefit related to our 2015 R&D spending was recorded in 2015. 
 
 NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURE (ADJUSTED INCOME) 
 General Description of Non-GAAP Financial Measure (Adjusted Income) 
 
 Adjusted income is an alternative view of performance used by management. We measure the performance of the overall Company on this basis in conjunction with other performance metrics. Because Adjusted income is an important internal measurement for Pfizer, we believe that investors’ understanding of our performance is enhanced by disclosing this performance measure. We report Adjusted income, certain components of Adjusted income, and Adjusted diluted earnings per share in order to portray the results of our major operations––the discovery, development, manufacture, marketing and sale of prescription medicines, vaccines and consumer healthcare (OTC) products––prior to considering certain income statement elements. We have defined Adjusted income as Net income attributable to Pfizer Inc. before the impact of purchase accounting for acquisitions, acquisition-related costs, discontinued operations and certain significant items, which are described below. Similarly, we have defined the Adjusted income components as Cost of sales, Selling, informational and administrative expenses, Research and development expenses, Amortization of intangible assets and Other (income)/deductions––net each before the impact of purchase accounting for acquisitions, acquisition-related costs and certain significant items. We have defined Adjusted diluted earnings per share as Earnings per common share attributable to Pfizer Inc.––diluted before the impact of purchase accounting for acquisitions, acquisition-related costs, discontinued operations and certain significant items. The Adjusted income measure, the Adjusted income component measures and the Adjusted diluted earnings per share measure are not, and should not be viewed as, a substitute for U.S. GAAP net income, U.S. GAAP net income components or U.S. GAAP diluted earnings per share. 
 
 The following are examples of how the Adjusted income and Adjusted diluted earnings per share measures are utilized: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 senior management receives a monthly analysis of our operating results that is prepared on an Adjusted income and Adjusted diluted earnings per share basis; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 our annual budgets are prepared on an Adjusted income and Adjusted diluted earnings per share basis; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 38 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 senior management’s annual compensation is derived, in part, using Adjusted income and Adjusted diluted earnings per share measures. Adjusted income is the performance metric utilized in the determination of bonuses under the Pfizer Inc. Executive Annual Incentive Plan that is designed to limit the bonuses payable to the Executive Leadership Team (ELT) for purposes of IRC Section 162(m). Subject to the Section 162(m) limitation, the bonuses are funded from a pool based on the performance measured by three financial metrics, including adjusted diluted earnings per share, which is derived from Adjusted income. This metric accounts for 40% of the bonus pool funding. The pool applies to the bonus plans for virtually all bonus-eligible, non-sales-force employees worldwide, including the ELT members and other members of senior management. In addition, commencing with the 2015 Performance Share Awards, adjusted operating income is one of the measures utilized to determine payout. Adjusted operating income is derived from Adjusted income. 
 Adjusted income and its components and Adjusted diluted earnings per share are non-GAAP financial measures that have no standardized meaning prescribed by U.S. GAAP and, therefore, are limited in their usefulness to investors. Because of their non-standardized definitions, Adjusted income and its components (unlike U.S. GAAP net income and its components) and Adjusted diluted earnings per share (unlike U.S. GAAP diluted earnings per share) may not be comparable to the calculation of similar measures of other companies. Adjusted income and its components and Adjusted diluted earnings per share are presented solely to permit investors to more fully understand how management assesses performance. 
 
 We also recognize that, as internal measures of performance, the Adjusted income and its components and Adjusted diluted earnings per share measures have limitations, and we do not restrict our performance-management process solely to these metrics. A limitation of these measures is that they provide a view of our operations without including all events during a period, such as the effects of an acquisition or amortization of purchased intangibles, and do not provide a comparable view of our performance to other companies in the biopharmaceutical industry. We also use other specifically tailored tools designed to achieve the highest levels of performance. For example, our R&D organization has productivity targets, upon which its effectiveness is measured. In addition, total shareholder return, both on an absolute basis and relative to a publicly traded pharmaceutical index, plays a significant role in determining payouts under certain of Pfizer’s long-term incentive compensation plans. 
 
 See the accompanying reconciliations of certain GAAP reported to non-GAAP adjusted information for 2017 , 2016 and 2015 below. 
 
 Purchase Accounting Adjustments 
 
 Adjusted income is calculated prior to considering certain significant purchase accounting impacts resulting from business combinations and net asset acquisitions. These impacts, primarily associated with Wyeth (acquired in 2009), Hospira (acquired in 2015), Anacor (acquired in June 2016) and Medivation (acquired in September 2016), can include the incremental charge to cost of sales from the sale of acquired inventory that was written up to fair value, amortization related to the increase in fair value of the acquired finite-lived intangible assets, and to a much lesser extent, depreciation related to the increase/decrease in fair value of the acquired fixed assets (primarily manufacturing facilities), amortization related to the increase in fair value of acquired debt, and the fair value changes associated with contingent consideration. Therefore, the Adjusted income measure includes the revenues earned upon the sale of the acquired products without considering the acquisition cost of those products. 
 
 Certain of the purchase accounting adjustments can occur through 20 or more years, but this presentation provides an alternative view of our performance that is used by management to internally assess business performance. We believe the elimination of amortization attributable to acquired intangible assets provides management and investors an alternative view of our business results by trying to provide a degree of parity to internally developed intangible assets for which R&D costs previously have been expensed. 
 
 However, a completely accurate comparison of internally developed intangible assets and acquired intangible assets cannot be achieved through Adjusted income. This component of Adjusted income is derived solely from the impacts of the items listed in the first paragraph of this section. We have not factored in the impacts of any other differences in experience that might have occurred if we had discovered and developed those intangible assets on our own, and this approach does not intend to be representative of the results that would have occurred in those circumstances. For example, our R&D costs in total, and in the periods presented, may have been different; our speed to commercialization and resulting sales, if any, may have been different; or our costs to manufacture may have been different. In addition, our marketing efforts may have been received differently by our customers. As such, in total, there can be no assurance that our Adjusted income amounts would have been the same as presented had we discovered and developed the acquired intangible assets. 
 
 Acquisition-Related Costs 
 
 Adjusted income is calculated prior to considering transaction, integration, restructuring and additional depreciation costs associated with business combinations because these costs are unique to each transaction and represent costs that were incurred to restructure and integrate two businesses as a result of the acquisition decision. For additional clarity, only transaction costs, additional depreciation and restructuring and integration activities that are associated with a business combination or a net-asset acquisition are included in acquisition-related costs. We have made no adjustments for the resulting synergies. 
 
 We believe that viewing income prior to considering these charges provides investors with a useful additional perspective because the significant costs incurred in connection with a business combination result primarily from the need to eliminate duplicate assets, activities or employees––a natural result of acquiring a fully integrated set of activities. For this reason, we believe that the costs incurred to convert disparate systems, to close duplicative facilities or to eliminate duplicate positions (for example, in the context of a business combination) can be viewed differently from those costs incurred in other, more normal, business contexts. 
 
 The integration and restructuring costs associated with a business combination may occur over several years, with the more significant impacts typically ending within three years of the transaction. Because of the need for certain external approvals for some actions, the span of time needed to achieve certain restructuring and integration activities can be lengthy. For example, due to the highly regulated nature of the 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 39 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 pharmaceutical business, the closure of excess facilities can take several years, as all manufacturing changes are subject to extensive validation and testing and must be approved by the FDA and/or other global regulatory authorities. 
 
 Discontinued Operations 
 
 Adjusted income is calculated prior to considering the results of operations included in discontinued operations, as well as any related gains or losses on the disposal of such operations. We believe that this presentation is meaningful to investors because, while we review our businesses and product lines for strategic fit with our operations, we do not build or run our businesses with the intent to sell them. Restatements due to discontinued operations do not impact compensation or change the Adjusted income measure for the compensation in respect of the restated periods, but are presented for consistency across all periods. 
 
 Certain Significant Items 
 
 Adjusted income is calculated prior to considering certain significant items. Certain significant items represent substantive and/or unusual items that are evaluated on an individual basis. Such evaluation considers both the quantitative and the qualitative aspects of their nature. Certain significant items may be highly variable and difficult to predict. Furthermore, in some cases it is reasonably possible that they could reoccur in future periods. For example, major non-acquisition-related cost-reduction programs stand on their own as they are specific to an event or goal with a defined term, but we may have subsequent programs based on reorganizations of the business, cost productivity or in response to loss of exclusivity or economic conditions. Legal charges to resolve litigation are also related to specific cases, which are facts and circumstances specific and, in some cases, may also be the result of litigation matters at acquired companies that were inestimable, not probable or unresolved at the date of acquisition. Unusual items may represent items that are not part of our ongoing business; items that, either as a result of their nature or size, we would not expect to occur as part of our normal business on a regular basis; items that would be non-recurring; or items that relate to products we no longer sell. While not all-inclusive, examples of items that could be included as certain significant items would be a major non-acquisition-related restructuring charge and associated implementation costs; amounts related to certain disposals of businesses, products or facilities that do not qualify as discontinued operations under U.S. GAAP; certain intangible asset impairments; adjustments related to the resolution of certain tax positions; the impact of adopting certain significant, event-driven tax legislation, such as the TCJA discussed in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 5A. Tax Matters: Taxes on Income from Continuing Operations or charges related to certain legal matters, such as certain of those discussed in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 17A. Commitments and Contingencies: Legal Proceedings and in Part II, ITEM 1, “Legal Proceedings” in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. Normal, ongoing defense costs of the Company or settlements of and accruals for legal matters made in the normal course of our business would not be considered certain significant items. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 40 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Reconciliation of GAAP Reported to Non-GAAP Adjusted Information––Certain Line Items 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER COMMON SHARE DATA 
 
 
 
 GAAP Reported 
 
 
 
 
 
 Purchase Accounting Adjustments (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Acquisition-Related Costs (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Discontinued Operations (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Certain Significant Items (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Non-GAAP Adjusted 
 
 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 52,546 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 52,546 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 
 
 11,240 
 
 
 
 
 
 (47 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (39 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (363 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 10,790 
 
 
 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses 
 
 
 
 14,784 
 
 
 
 
 
 (16 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (299 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 14,469 
 
 
 
 
 Research and development expenses 
 
 
 
 7,657 
 
 
 
 
 
 8 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (38 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 7,626 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization of intangible assets 
 
 
 
 4,758 
 
 
 
 
 
 (4,565 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 193 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 
 
 
 
 487 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (418 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (69 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Other (income)/deductions––net 
 
 
 
 1,315 
 
 
 
 
 
 (138 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (1,876 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (699 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Income from continuing operations before provision/(benefit) for taxes on income 
 
 
 
 12,305 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,758 
 
 
 
 
 
 456 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,647 
 
 
 
 
 
 20,166 
 
 
 
 
 Provision/(benefit) for taxes on income (b) 
 
 
 
 (9,049 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 1,331 
 
 
 
 
 
 173 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 11,577 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,033 
 
 
 
 
 Income from continuing operations 
 
 
 
 21,353 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,426 
 
 
 
 
 
 283 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (8,930 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 16,132 
 
 
 
 
 Discontinued operations––net of tax 
 
 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (2 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 
 
 
 
 47 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 47 
 
 
 
 
 Net income attributable to Pfizer Inc. 
 
 
 
 21,308 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,426 
 
 
 
 
 
 283 
 
 
 
 
 
 (2 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (8,930 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 16,085 
 
 
 
 
 Earnings per common share attributable to Pfizer Inc.––diluted 
 
 
 
 3.52 
 
 
 
 
 
 0.57 
 
 
 
 
 
 0.05 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (1.47 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 2.65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER COMMON SHARE DATA 
 
 
 
 GAAP Reported 
 
 
 
 
 
 Purchase Accounting Adjustments (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Acquisition-Related Costs (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Discontinued Operations (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Certain Significant Items (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Non-GAAP Adjusted 
 
 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 52,824 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 52,824 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 
 
 12,329 
 
 
 
 
 
 (295 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (7 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (397 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 11,630 
 
 
 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses 
 
 
 
 14,837 
 
 
 
 
 
 (3 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (89 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 14,745 
 
 
 
 
 Research and development expenses 
 
 
 
 7,872 
 
 
 
 
 
 3 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (34 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 7,841 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization of intangible assets 
 
 
 
 4,056 
 
 
 
 
 
 (3,928 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 128 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 
 
 
 
 1,724 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (778 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (945 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Other (income)/deductions––net 
 
 
 
 3,655 
 
 
 
 
 
 39 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (4,423 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (729 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Income from continuing operations before provision/(benefit) for taxes on income 
 
 
 
 8,351 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,185 
 
 
 
 
 
 785 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 5,888 
 
 
 
 
 
 19,210 
 
 
 
 
 Provision/(benefit) for taxes on income (b) 
 
 
 
 1,123 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,248 
 
 
 
 
 
 104 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,943 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,418 
 
 
 
 
 Income from continuing operations 
 
 
 
 7,229 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,937 
 
 
 
 
 
 682 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,944 
 
 
 
 
 
 14,792 
 
 
 
 
 Discontinued operations––net of tax 
 
 
 
 17 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (17 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 
 
 
 
 31 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 31 
 
 
 
 
 Net income attributable to Pfizer Inc. 
 
 
 
 7,215 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,937 
 
 
 
 
 
 682 
 
 
 
 
 
 (17 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 3,944 
 
 
 
 
 
 14,761 
 
 
 
 
 Earnings per common share attributable to Pfizer Inc.––diluted 
 
 
 
 1.17 
 
 
 
 
 
 0.48 
 
 
 
 
 
 0.11 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 0.64 
 
 
 
 
 
 2.40 
 
 
 See end of tables for notes (a) and (b) . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 41 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER COMMON SHARE DATA 
 
 
 
 GAAP Reported 
 
 
 
 
 
 Purchase Accounting Adjustments (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Acquisition-Related Costs (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Discontinued Operations (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Certain Significant Items (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Non-GAAP Adjusted 
 
 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 48,851 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 48,851 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 
 
 9,648 
 
 
 
 
 
 (413 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (75 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (140 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 9,021 
 
 
 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses 
 
 
 
 14,809 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (484 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 14,324 
 
 
 
 
 Research and development expenses 
 
 
 
 7,690 
 
 
 
 
 
 7 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (44 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 7,653 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization of intangible assets 
 
 
 
 3,728 
 
 
 
 
 
 (3,598 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 130 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 
 
 
 
 1,152 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (820 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (333 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Other (income)/deductions––net 
 
 
 
 2,860 
 
 
 
 
 
 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (3,321 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (409 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Income from continuing operations before provision/(benefit) for taxes on income 
 
 
 
 8,965 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,953 
 
 
 
 
 
 894 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,321 
 
 
 
 
 
 18,133 
 
 
 
 
 Provision/(benefit) for taxes on income (b) 
 
 
 
 1,990 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,110 
 
 
 
 
 
 303 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 949 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,352 
 
 
 
 
 Income from continuing operations 
 
 
 
 6,975 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,843 
 
 
 
 
 
 591 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,372 
 
 
 
 
 
 13,781 
 
 
 
 
 Discontinued operations––net of tax 
 
 
 
 11 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (11 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 
 
 
 
 26 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 26 
 
 
 
 
 Net income attributable to Pfizer Inc. 
 
 
 
 6,960 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,843 
 
 
 
 
 
 591 
 
 
 
 
 
 (11 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 3,372 
 
 
 
 
 
 13,755 
 
 
 
 
 Earnings per common share attributable to Pfizer Inc.––diluted 
 
 
 
 1.11 
 
 
 
 
 
 0.45 
 
 
 
 
 
 0.09 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 0.54 
 
 
 
 
 
 2.20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 For details of adjustments, see “Details of Income Statement Items Included in GAAP Reported but Excluded from Non-GAAP Adjusted Income” below. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 The effective tax rate on Non-GAAP Adjusted income was 20.0% in 2017 , 23.0% in 2016 and 24.0% in 2015 . The decrease in the effective tax rate on Non-GAAP Adjusted income for 2017 compared with 2016 was primarily due to tax benefits associated with the enactment of the TCJA, primarily reflecting the remeasurement of U.S. deferred tax liabilities on deemed repatriated post-1986 earnings of foreign subsidiaries that were accrued during 2017, as well as a favorable change in the jurisdictional mix of earnings as a result of operating fluctuations in the normal course of business, partially offset by a decrease in benefits associated with the resolution of certain tax positions pertaining to prior years primarily with various foreign tax authorities, and the expiration of certain statutes of limitations. The decline in the effective tax rate on Non-GAAP Adjusted income in 2016 compared to 2015 was primarily due to a favorable change in the jurisdictional mix of earnings as a result of operating fluctuations in the normal course of business, an increase in tax benefits associated with the resolution of certain tax positions pertaining to prior years primarily with various foreign tax authorities, and the expiration of certain statutes of limitations, as well as benefits related to the adoption of a new accounting standard in the fourth quarter of 2016, as of January 1, 2016, requiring excess tax benefits or deficiencies of share-based compensation to be recognized as a component of the Provision/(benefit) for taxes on income . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 42 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Details of Income Statement Items Included in GAAP Reported but Excluded from Non-GAAP Adjusted Income 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Adjusted income, as shown above, excludes the following items: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 
 
 Purchase accounting adjustments 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization, depreciation and other (a) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 4,711 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 3,890 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 3,540 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 
 
 47 
 
 
 
 
 
 295 
 
 
 
 
 
 413 
 
 
 
 
 Total purchase accounting adjustments—pre-tax 
 
 
 
 4,758 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,185 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,953 
 
 
 
 
 Income taxes (b) 
 
 
 
 (1,331 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (1,248 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (1,110 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Total purchase accounting adjustments—net of tax 
 
 
 
 3,426 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,937 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,843 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Acquisition-related costs 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges (c) 
 
 
 
 109 
 
 
 
 
 
 211 
 
 
 
 
 
 479 
 
 
 
 
 Transaction costs (c) 
 
 
 
 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 127 
 
 
 
 
 
 123 
 
 
 
 
 Integration costs (c) 
 
 
 
 305 
 
 
 
 
 
 441 
 
 
 
 
 
 218 
 
 
 
 
 Additional depreciation—asset restructuring (d) 
 
 
 
 39 
 
 
 
 
 
 7 
 
 
 
 
 
 75 
 
 
 
 
 Total acquisition-related costs—pre-tax 
 
 
 
 456 
 
 
 
 
 
 785 
 
 
 
 
 
 894 
 
 
 
 
 Income taxes (e) 
 
 
 
 (173 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (104 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (303 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Total acquisition-related costs—net of tax 
 
 
 
 283 
 
 
 
 
 
 682 
 
 
 
 
 
 591 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Discontinued operations 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total discontinued operations—net of tax, attributable to Pfizer Inc. (f) 
 
 
 
 (2 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (17 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (11 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Certain significant items 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges (g) 
 
 
 
 69 
 
 
 
 
 
 945 
 
 
 
 
 
 333 
 
 
 
 
 Implementation costs and additional depreciation—asset restructuring (h) 
 
 
 
 279 
 
 
 
 
 
 540 
 
 
 
 
 
 251 
 
 
 
 
 Certain legal matters, net (i) 
 
 
 
 237 
 
 
 
 
 
 494 
 
 
 
 
 
 968 
 
 
 
 
 Loss on sale and impairment on remeasurement of HIS net assets (i) 
 
 
 
 55 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,712 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Certain asset impairments (i) 
 
 
 
 379 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,426 
 
 
 
 
 
 787 
 
 
 
 
 Foreign currency loss and inventory impairment related to Venezuela (j) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 878 
 
 
 
 
 Charge related to pension settlement (k) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 491 
 
 
 
 
 Business and legal entity alignment costs (i) 
 
 
 
 71 
 
 
 
 
 
 261 
 
 
 
 
 
 282 
 
 
 
 
 Net losses on early retirement of debt (i) 
 
 
 
 999 
 
 
 
 
 
 312 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Other (l) 
 
 
 
 556 
 
 
 
 
 
 197 
 
 
 
 
 
 332 
 
 
 
 
 Total certain significant items—pre-tax 
 
 
 
 2,647 
 
 
 
 
 
 5,888 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,321 
 
 
 
 
 Income taxes (m) 
 
 
 
 (11,577 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (1,943 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (949 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Total certain significant items—net of tax 
 
 
 
 (8,930 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 3,944 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,372 
 
 
 
 
 Total purchase accounting adjustments, acquisition-related costs, discontinued operations and certain significant items—net of tax, attributable to Pfizer Inc. 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (5,223 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 7,546 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 6,795 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 Included primarily in Amortization of intangible assets . 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 Included in Provision/(benefit) for taxes on income. Income taxes includes the tax effect of the associated pre-tax amounts, calculated by determining the jurisdictional location of the pre-tax amounts and applying that jurisdiction’s applicable tax rate. Income taxes recorded in 2017 do not reflect any changes associated with the enactment of the TCJA. These changes resulting from the TCJA have been reflected in the line ITEM, Certain significant items “Income taxes”. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 Included in Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs . Restructuring charges include employee termination costs, asset impairments and other exit costs associated with business combinations. Transaction costs represent external costs for banking, legal, accounting and other similar services. Integration costs represent external, incremental costs directly related to integrating acquired businesses, and primarily include expenditures for consulting and the integration of systems and processes. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 3. Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives . 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) 
 
 Included in Cost of sales. Represents the impact of changes in estimated useful lives of assets involved in restructuring actions related to acquisitions . 
 
 
 
 
 
 (e) 
 
 Included in Provision/(benefit) for taxes on income. Income taxes includes the tax effect of the associated pre-tax amounts, calculated by determining the jurisdictional location of the pre-tax amounts and applying that jurisdiction’s applicable tax rate. Income taxes recorded in 2017 do not reflect any changes associated with the enactment of the TCJA. These changes resulting from the TCJA have been reflected in Certain significant items “Income taxes”. As applicable, each period may also include the impact of the remeasurement of certain deferred tax liabilities resulting from our plant network restructuring activities: in 2016, there was an unfavorable impact. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (f) 
 
 Included in Discontinued operations––net of tax. For all years presented, represents post-close adjustments. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (g) 
 
 Included in Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 3. Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives ). Amounts relate to our cost-reduction and productivity initiatives not related to acquisitions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 43 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (h) 
 
 Amounts relate to our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives not related to acquisitions (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 3. Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives ). For 2017 , included in Cost of sales ( $170 million ), Selling, informational and administrative expenses ( $71 million ) and Research and development expenses ( $38 million ). For 2016 , primarily all included in Cost of sales ( $423 million ), Selling, informational and administrative expenses ( $81 million ) and Research and development expenses ( $32 million ). For 2015 , virtually all included in Cost of sales ( $145 million ), Selling, informational and administrative expenses ( $83 million ) and Research and development expenses ( $19 million ). 
 
 
 
 
 
 (i) 
 
 Included in Other (income)/deductions—net (see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 4. Other (Income)/Deductions—Net ). 
 
 
 
 
 
 (j) 
 
 In 2015, represents (i) an $806 million foreign currency loss included in Other (income)/deductions––net related to conditions in Venezuela during 2015, that had us resolve that our Venezuelan bolivar-denominated net monetary assets that are subject to revaluation were no longer expected to be settled at the Venezuelan government CENCOEX official rate of 6.30, but rather at the then SIMADI rate of 200, the lowest official rate. Those conditions included the inability to obtain significant conversions of Venezuelan bolivars related to intercompany U.S. dollar denominated accounts, an evaluation of the effects of the implementation of a fourth-quarter 2015 operational restructuring, resulting in 36% reduction in our labor force in Venezuela, and our expectation of the changes in Venezuela’s responses to changes in its economy; and (ii) a $72 million charge included in Cost of sales related to inventory impairment in Venezuela related to the foreign currency change described above. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (k) 
 
 In 2015, included in Cost of sales ( $72 million ) and Selling, informational and administrative expenses ( $419 million ) and primarily represents a non-recurring charge related to settlement of pension obligations in accordance with an offer to certain terminated employees who are vested in their pension benefits to elect a lump-sum payment or annuity of their deferred vested pension benefits. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (l) 
 
 For 2017 , included in Cost of sales ( $193 million ), Selling, informational and administrative expenses ( $229 million ) and Other (income)/deductions––net ( $134 million ). For 2016 , primarily included in Cost of sales ( $27 million income), Selling, informational and administrative expenses ( $8 million ) and Other (income)/deductions––net ( $214 million ). For 2015 , virtually all included in Cost of sales ( $149 million income) and Other (income)/deductions––net ( $473 million ). For 2017 , includes, among other things, (i) a charitable contribution to the Pfizer Foundation of $200 million , which is included in Selling, informational and administrative expenses ; (ii) $195 million in inventory losses, overhead costs related to the period in which our Puerto Rico plants were not operational, and incremental costs to date, all of which resulted from the recent hurricanes in Puerto Rico and are included in Cost of sales ; (iii) an $81 million loss related to the sale of our 49% equity share in Hisun Pfizer, which is included in Other (income)/deductions––net; and (iv) a net loss of $30 million related to the sale of our 40% ownership investment in Teuto, including the extinguishment of a put option for the remaining 60% ownership interest, which is included in Other (income)/deductions––net . For 2016, includes, among other things, $150 million paid to Allergan for reimbursement of Allergan's expenses associated with the terminated transaction, which is included in Other (income)/deductions—net . For 2015, includes, among other things, a change in the profit deferred in inventory relating to inventory that had not been sold to third parties, which is included in Cost of sales (non-cash benefit of $221 million ), losses of $239 million , which are included in Other (income)/deductions––net, and are related to our share of an equity method investee’s charges incurred for its re-measurement of a contingent consideration liability, and charges of $173 million related to the write-down of assets to net realizable value, which are primarily included in Other (income)/deductions––net . 
 
 
 
 
 
 (m) 
 
 Included in Provision/(benefit) for taxes on income. Income taxes includes the tax effect of the associated pre-tax amounts, calculated by determining the jurisdictional location of the pre-tax amounts and applying that jurisdiction’s applicable tax rate. The amount in 2017 was favorably impacted by tax benefits primarily associated with the remeasurement of deferred tax liabilities, which includes the repatriation tax on deemed repatriated accumulated post-1986 earnings of foreign subsidiaries associated with the TCJA. Given the significant changes resulting from and complexities associated with the TCJA, the estimated financial impacts for 2017 are provisional and subject to further analysis, interpretation and clarification of the TCJA, which could result in changes to these estimates during 2018. The amount in 2016 was favorably impacted by benefits related to the final resolution of an agreement in principle reached in February 2016 and finalized in April 2016 to resolve certain claims related to Protonix, which resulted in the receipt of information that raised our initial assessment in 2015 of the likelihood of prevailing on the technical merits of our tax position. The amount in 2015 was favorably impacted by tax benefits associated with certain tax initiatives. In addition, the amount in 2015 was unfavorably impacted by a non-deductible foreign currency loss related to Venezuela and the non-deductible charge for the agreement in principle reached in February 2016 to resolve claims relating to Protonix. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 5A. Tax Matters: Taxes on Income from Continuing Operations . 
 
 ANALYSIS OF OPERATING SEGMENT INFORMATION 
 
 The following tables and associated notes provide additional information about the performance of our two operating segments—the IH segment and the EH segment. For additional information about each operating segment, see the “Our Strategy –– Commercial Operations” section of this Financial Review and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 18. Segment, Geographic and Other Revenue Information . 
 As described in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 1A. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies: Basis of Presentation , acquisitions and divestitures have impacted our results of operations in 2017 , 2016 and 2015 . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following tables provide revenue and cost information by reportable operating segment and a reconciliation of that information to our consolidated statements of income: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 Innovative Health (IH) (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Essential Health (EH) (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Other (b) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Non-GAAP Adjusted (c) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Reconciling Items (d) 
 
 
 
 
 
 GAAP Reported 
 
 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 31,422 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 21,124 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 52,546 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 52,546 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 
 
 4,091 
 
 
 
 
 
 5,938 
 
 
 
 
 
 762 
 
 
 
 
 
 10,790 
 
 
 
 
 
 449 
 
 
 
 
 
 11,240 
 
 
 
 
 % of revenue 
 
 
 
 13.0 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 28.1 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 20.5 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 21.4 
 
 % 
 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses 
 
 
 
 7,158 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,067 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,244 
 
 
 
 
 
 14,469 
 
 
 
 
 
 316 
 
 
 
 
 
 14,784 
 
 
 
 
 Research and development expenses 
 
 
 
 2,566 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,046 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,014 
 
 
 
 
 
 7,626 
 
 
 
 
 
 31 
 
 
 
 
 
 7,657 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization of intangible assets 
 
 
 
 129 
 
 
 
 
 
 65 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 193 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,565 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,758 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 487 
 
 
 
 
 
 487 
 
 
 
 
 Other (income)/deductions––net 
 
 
 
 (863 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (275 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 439 
 
 
 
 
 
 (699 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 2,014 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,315 
 
 
 
 
 Income/(loss) from continuing operations before provision/(benefit) for taxes on income 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 18,341 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 11,283 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (9,459 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 20,166 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (7,861 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 12,305 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 44 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 Innovative Health (IH) (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Essential Health (EH) (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Other (b) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Non-GAAP Adjusted (c) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Reconciling Items (d) 
 
 
 
 
 
 GAAP Reported 
 
 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 29,197 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 23,627 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 52,824 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 52,824 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 
 
 4,041 
 
 
 
 
 
 6,273 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,316 
 
 
 
 
 
 11,630 
 
 
 
 
 
 699 
 
 
 
 
 
 12,329 
 
 
 
 
 % of revenue 
 
 
 
 13.8 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 26.5 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 22.0 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 23.3 
 
 % 
 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses 
 
 
 
 7,248 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,455 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,042 
 
 
 
 
 
 14,745 
 
 
 
 
 
 92 
 
 
 
 
 
 14,837 
 
 
 
 
 Research and development expenses 
 
 
 
 2,940 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,232 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,669 
 
 
 
 
 
 7,841 
 
 
 
 
 
 31 
 
 
 
 
 
 7,872 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization of intangible assets 
 
 
 
 102 
 
 
 
 
 
 26 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 128 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,928 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,056 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,724 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,724 
 
 
 
 
 Other (income)/deductions––net 
 
 
 
 (988 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (256 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 515 
 
 
 
 
 
 (729 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 4,384 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,655 
 
 
 
 
 Income/(loss) from continuing operations before provision/(benefit) for taxes on income 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 15,854 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 12,898 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (9,542 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 19,210 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (10,858 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 8,351 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 Innovative Health (IH) (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Essential Health (EH) (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Other (b) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Non-GAAP Adjusted (c) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Reconciling Items (d) 
 
 
 
 
 
 GAAP Reported 
 
 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 26,758 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 22,094 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 48,851 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 48,851 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 
 
 3,651 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,891 
 
 
 
 
 
 479 
 
 
 
 
 
 9,021 
 
 
 
 
 
 627 
 
 
 
 
 
 9,648 
 
 
 
 
 % of revenue 
 
 
 
 13.6 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 22.1 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 18.5 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 19.7 
 
 % 
 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses 
 
 
 
 6,807 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,573 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,945 
 
 
 
 
 
 14,324 
 
 
 
 
 
 485 
 
 
 
 
 
 14,809 
 
 
 
 
 Research and development expenses 
 
 
 
 2,712 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,032 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,909 
 
 
 
 
 
 7,653 
 
 
 
 
 
 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 7,690 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization of intangible assets 
 
 
 
 94 
 
 
 
 
 
 36 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 130 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,598 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,728 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,152 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,152 
 
 
 
 
 Other (income)/deductions––net 
 
 
 
 (1,086 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (152 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 829 
 
 
 
 
 
 (409 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 3,269 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,860 
 
 
 
 
 Income/(loss) from continuing operations before provision/(benefit) for taxes on income 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 14,581 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 12,714 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (9,162 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 18,133 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (9,168 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 8,965 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 Amounts represent the revenues and costs managed by each of our operating segments. The expenses generally include only those costs directly attributable to the operating segment. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 Other comprises the revenues and costs included in our Adjusted income components (see footnote (c) below) that are managed outside of our two operating segments and includes the following: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Other Business Activities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 WRD (i) 
 
 
 
 GPD (ii) 
 
 
 
 Corporate (iii) 
 
 
 
 Other 
 Unallocated (iv) 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 
 
 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 34 
 
 
 
 
 
 727 
 
 
 
 
 
 762 
 
 
 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (1 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 4,208 
 
 
 
 
 
 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,244 
 
 
 
 
 Research and development expenses 
 
 
 
 2,395 
 
 
 
 
 
 776 
 
 
 
 
 
 840 
 
 
 
 
 
 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,014 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization of intangible assets 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Other (income)/deductions––net 
 
 
 
 (33 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 440 
 
 
 
 
 
 32 
 
 
 
 
 
 439 
 
 
 
 
 Loss from continuing operations before provision/(benefit) for taxes on income 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (2,362 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (775 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (5,522 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (799 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (9,459 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 45 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Other Business Activities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 WRD (i) 
 
 
 
 GPD (ii) 
 
 
 
 Corporate (iii) 
 
 
 
 Other 
 Unallocated (iv) 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 199 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,117 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,316 
 
 
 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,004 
 
 
 
 
 
 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,042 
 
 
 
 
 Research and development expenses 
 
 
 
 2,352 
 
 
 
 
 
 691 
 
 
 
 
 
 612 
 
 
 
 
 
 14 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,669 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization of intangible assets 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Other (income)/deductions––net 
 
 
 
 (24 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 676 
 
 
 
 
 
 (136 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 515 
 
 
 
 
 Loss from continuing operations before provision/(benefit) for taxes on income 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (2,328 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (691 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (5,491 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (1,032 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (9,542 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Other Business Activities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 WRD (i) 
 
 
 
 GPD (ii) 
 
 
 
 Corporate (iii) 
 
 
 
 Other 
 Unallocated (iv) 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 20 
 
 
 
 
 
 459 
 
 
 
 
 
 479 
 
 
 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses 
 
 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,860 
 
 
 
 
 
 84 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,945 
 
 
 
 
 Research and development expenses 
 
 
 
 2,331 
 
 
 
 
 
 658 
 
 
 
 
 
 906 
 
 
 
 
 
 14 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,909 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization of intangible assets 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 3 
 
 
 
 
 
 (3 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Other (income)/deductions––net 
 
 
 
 (77 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 817 
 
 
 
 
 
 89 
 
 
 
 
 
 829 
 
 
 
 
 Loss from continuing operations before provision/(benefit) for taxes on income 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (2,255 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (658 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (5,607 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (642 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (9,162 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 (i) 
 
 WRD—the R&D expenses managed by our WRD organization, which is generally responsible for research projects for our IH business until proof-of-concept is achieved and then for transitioning those projects to the IH segment via the GPD organization for possible clinical and commercial development. R&D spending may include upfront and milestone payments for intellectual property rights. The WRD organization also has responsibility for certain science-based and other platform-services organizations, which provide technical expertise and other services to the various R&D projects, including EH R&D projects. WRD is also responsible for facilitating all regulatory submissions and interactions with regulatory agencies, including all safety-event activities. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (ii) 
 
 GPD––the costs associated with our GPD organization, which is generally responsible for the clinical development of assets that are in clinical trials for our WRD and Innovative portfolios. GPD also provides technical support and other services to Pfizer R&D projects. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (iii) 
 
 Corporate—the costs associated with Corporate, representing platform functions (such as worldwide technology, global real estate operations, legal, finance, human resources, worldwide public affairs, compliance, and worldwide procurement) and certain compensation and other corporate costs, such as interest income and expense, and gains and losses on investments. Effective in the first quarter of 2017, Corporate also includes the costs associated with our Pfizer Medical organization (Medical), previously reported as part of Other Business Activities. Medical is responsible for the provision of medical information to healthcare providers, patients and other parties, transparency and disclosure activities, clinical trial results publication, grants for healthcare quality improvement and medical education, and partnerships with global public health and medical associations. We have reclassified approximately $165 million and $177 million of Medical costs from Other Business Activities to Corporate in 2016 and 2015 , respectively, to conform to the current period presentation. We recognized a $52 million gain in 2017 as an offset to Cost of sales related to foreign currency forward-exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges of a portion of our foreign exchange-denominated forecasted intercompany inventory sales. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (iv) 
 
 Other Unallocated—other unallocated costs, representing overhead expenses associated with our manufacturing and commercial operations that are not directly assessed to an operating segment, as business unit (segment) management does not manage these costs (which include manufacturing variances associated with production). 
 For information purposes only, the following tables present reconciliations of our segment operating results to segment operating results including estimated Other costs generally associated with each segment for 2017. While we do not manage our segments or have performance goals under such an allocated manner, we believe that some investors may find this information useful in their analyses. 
 The estimated Other costs generally associated with our operating segments do not purport to reflect the additional amounts that each of our operating segments would have incurred had each segment operated as a standalone company during the period presented. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 46 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 For information purposes only, for 2017 , we estimate that Other costs, as described above, for combined WRD and GPD costs of $3.1 billion , and combined Corporate and Other Unallocated costs of $5.6 billion after excluding (i) net interest-related expense not attributable to an operating segment included in Corporate (approximately $923 million in Other (income)/deductions––net ); and (ii) net income from investments and other assets not attributable to an operating segment included in Corporate (approximately $227 million in Other (income)/deductions––net ), are generally associated with our operating segments, as follows: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Estimated Other Costs Associated with IH (ii) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 Innovative Health Non-GAAP Adjusted (i), (iii) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Estimated WRD/GPD (ii) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Estimated Corporate/Other Unallocated (ii) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Innovative Health with Estimated Other Costs Associated with Innovative Health Non-GAAP Adjusted (ii), (iii) 
 
 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 31,422 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 31,422 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 
 
 4,091 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 174 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,265 
 
 
 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses 
 
 
 
 7,158 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,448 
 
 
 
 
 
 9,605 
 
 
 
 
 Research and development expenses 
 
 
 
 2,566 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,133 
 
 
 
 
 
 688 
 
 
 
 
 
 6,387 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization of intangible assets 
 
 
 
 129 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 129 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Other (income)/deductions––net 
 
 
 
 (863 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (33 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (98 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (994 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Income from continuing operations before provision/(benefit) for taxes on income 
 
 
 
 18,341 
 
 
 
 
 
 (3,100 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (3,212 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 12,030 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Estimated Other Costs Associated with EH (ii) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 Essential Health Non-GAAP Adjusted (i), (iii) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Estimated WRD/GPD (ii) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Estimated Corporate/Other Unallocated (ii) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Essential Health with Estimated Other Costs Associated with Essential Health Non-GAAP Adjusted (ii), (iii) 
 
 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 21,124 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 21,124 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 
 
 5,938 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 588 
 
 
 
 
 
 6,525 
 
 
 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses 
 
 
 
 3,067 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,797 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,864 
 
 
 
 
 Research and development expenses 
 
 
 
 1,046 
 
 
 
 
 
 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 156 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,239 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization of intangible assets 
 
 
 
 65 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 65 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Other (income)/deductions––net 
 
 
 
 (275 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (125 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (401 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Income from continuing operations before provision/(benefit) for taxes on income 
 
 
 
 11,283 
 
 
 
 
 
 (38 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (2,415 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 8,831 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (i) 
 
 Amount represents the revenues and costs managed by each of our operating segments. The expenses generally include only those costs directly attributable to the operating segment. See note (a) above for more information. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (ii) 
 
 Represents costs not assessed to an operating segment, as business unit (segment) management does not manage these costs. For a description of these other costs and business activities, see note (b) above. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 WRD/GPD –– The information provided for WRD and GPD was substantially all derived from our estimates of the costs incurred in connection with the R&D projects associated with each operating segment. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Corporate/Other Unallocated –– The information provided for Corporate and Other Unallocated was derived mainly using proportional allocation methods based on global, regional or country revenues or global, regional or country headcount, as well as certain cost metrics, as appropriate, such as those derived from research and development and manufacturing costs, and, to a lesser extent, specific identification and estimates. Management believes that the allocations of Corporate and Other Unallocated costs are reasonable. 
 The estimated Other costs generally associated with our operating segments do not purport to reflect the additional amounts that each of our operating segments would have incurred had each segment operated as a standalone company during the period presented. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (iii) 
 
 See note (c) below for an explanation of our Non-GAAP Adjusted financial measure. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 See the “Non-GAAP Financial Measure (Adjusted Income)” section of this Financial Review for a definition of these “Adjusted Income” components. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) 
 
 Includes costs associated with (i) purchase accounting adjustments; (ii) acquisition-related costs; and (iii) certain significant items, which are substantive and/or unusual, and in some cases recurring, items (such as restructuring or legal charges) that are evaluated on an individual basis by management. For additional information about these reconciling items and/or our Non-GAAP adjusted measure of performance, see the “Non-GAAP Financial Measure (Adjusted Income)” section of this Financial Review. 
 
 Innovative Health Operating Segment 
 
 2017 vs. 2016 
 
 IH Revenues increase d 8% to $31.4 billion . Foreign exchange had a de minimis impact. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 47 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following graph illustrates the components of the increase in IH Revenues : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 LOE generally pertains to period-over-period revenue impacts for products across our portfolios experiencing patent expirations or loss of regulatory exclusivity in certain developed markets. 
 The following provides an analysis of the increase in IH Revenues : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 IH Revenues , 2016 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 29,197 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Operational growth/(decline): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Continued growth from key brands including Eliquis (globally), as well as Xeljanz and Lyrica (both primarily in the U.S.) 
 
 
 
 1,608 
 
 
 
 
 Ibrance global growth: U.S. revenues increased primarily due to continued strong uptake in the metastatic breast cancer setting. International revenues increased operationally, but were negatively impacted by a one-time price adjustment to 2017 revenues related to finalizing reimbursement agreements in certain developed Europe markets. 
 
 
 
 993 
 
 
 
 
 Increase in Xtandi alliance revenues in the U.S. (September 2016 acquisition of Medivation) 
 
 
 
 450 
 
 
 
 
 Lower revenues for Enbrel primarily in developed Europe markets due to continued biosimilar competition 
 
 
 
 (448 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Lower revenues for Viagra in the U.S. due to generic competition that began in December 2017 
 
 
 
 (359 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Decline in Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13 revenues. U.S. revenues decreased primarily due to the expected decline in revenues for the adult indication in the U.S. due to a high initial capture rate of the eligible population following its successful fourth-quarter 2014 launch, which resulted in a smaller remaining “catch up” opportunity compared to 2016, partially offset by growth from the pediatric indication. International revenues increased primarily due to the favorable overall impact of timing and increased volume associated with government purchases in certain emerging markets for the pediatric indication compared with prior year, as well as from the inclusion of Prevenar 13 in additional national immunization programs in certain emerging markets for the adult and pediatric indications in the fourth of quarter 2017. 
 
 
 
 (108 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Other operational factors, net 
 
 
 
 169 
 
 
 
 
 Operational growth, net 
 
 
 
 2,305 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Unfavorable impact of foreign exchange 
 
 
 
 (80 
 
 ) 
 
 
 IH Revenues increase 
 
 
 
 2,225 
 
 
 
 
 IH Revenues , 2017 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 31,422 
 
 
 Total IH revenues from emerging markets were $4.4 billion in 2017 , compared to $3.7 billion in 2016 , reflecting an 18% operational increase . Foreign exchange had a de minimis impact on total IH revenues from emerging markets. 
 Costs and Expenses 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Cost of sales as a percentage of Revenues decrease d 0.8 percentage points primarily driven by a favorable change in product mix, including an increase in alliance revenue, which have no associated cost of sales, partially offset by an increase in royalty expense, mostly related to Ibrance. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The increase in Cost of sales of 1% was primarily driven by an increase in royalty expense, mostly related to Ibrance, partially offset by a favorable change in product mix. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The decrease in Selling, informational and administrative expenses of 1% was primarily driven by the non-recurrence of an allowance for doubtful trade accounts receivable, resulting from unfavorable developments with a distributor that was recorded in the first quarter of 2016, lower spending for certain products, primarily Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13 and Viagra (which lost exclusivity in the U.S. in December 2017), partially offset by additional investment across several of our key products, primarily Eucrisa, Ibrance and Xeljanz. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The decrease in Research and development expenses of 13% primarily reflects: 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 the discontinuation of the global clinical development program for bococizumab in the fourth quarter of 2016 and the non-recurrence of its associated close-out costs, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 48 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 partially offset by increased costs associated with: 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 our oncology programs, including clinical trial spend on legacy Medivation assets; 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 our C. difficile vaccine program, which initiated a Phase 3 clinical study in March 2017; 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 our tanezumab development program; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 an expense of $28 million , representing IH’s portion of the $75 million expense resulting from our May 2017 agreement with Sangamo to develop and commercialize gene therapy programs for Hemophilia A. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The unfavorable change in Other (income)/deductions––net primarily reflects: 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 lower royalty income for Enbrel of $470 million , resulting from the expiration on October 31, 2016 of the 36-month royalty period under the collaboration agreement for Enbrel in the U.S. and Canada (the collaboration period under the agreement expired on October 31, 2013); and 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 a $51 million decrease in Prezista royalties, 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 a $256 million increase in dividend income from our investment in ViiV; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 a $176 million increase in Xtandi royalty income. 
 2016 vs. 2015 
 IH Revenues increase d 9% to $29.2 billion . Foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of 2% . Revenues increase d 11% operationally. 
 The following graph illustrates the components of the increase in IH Revenues : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 LOE generally pertains to period-over-period revenue impacts for products across our portfolios experiencing patent expirations or loss of regulatory exclusivity in certain developed markets. 
 The following provides an analysis of the increase in IH Revenues : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 IH Revenues, 2015 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 26,758 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Acquisition: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The inclusion of Xtandi alliance revenues in the U.S. (September 2016 acquisition of Medivation) 
 
 
 
 140 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Operational growth/(decline): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Continued operational growth from key brands including Ibrance, Lyrica, Xeljanz, Chantix/Champix and Consumer Healthcare, all primarily in the U.S., as well as Eliquis and Xalkori globally 
 
 
 
 3,582 
 
 
 
 
 Decline in Rebif revenues in the U.S. due to the year-end 2015 expiry of the collaboration agreement to co-promote Rebif in the U.S., as well as lower revenues for Enbrel primarily in most developed Europe markets, primarily due to biosimilar competition 
 
 
 
 (571 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Decline in Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13 revenues, primarily driven by an expected decline in revenues for the adult indication in the U.S. due to a high initial capture rate of the eligible population following its successful fourth-quarter 2014 launch, which resulted in a smaller remaining “catch up” opportunity compared to the prior-year, as well as the unfavorable impact of the timing of government purchases for the pediatric indication 
 
 
 
 (454 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Other operational factors, net 
 
 
 
 330 
 
 
 
 
 Operational growth, net 
 
 
 
 3,027 
 
 
 
 
 Unfavorable impact of foreign exchange 
 
 
 
 (588 
 
 ) 
 
 
 IH Revenues increase 
 
 
 
 2,439 
 
 
 
 
 IH Revenues, 2016 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 29,197 
 
 
 Total IH revenues from emerging markets were $3.7 billion in 2016 , compared to $4.0 billion in 2015 , reflecting 7% operational growth, which was more than offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of 15% . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 49 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Costs and Expenses 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Cost of sales as a percentage of Revenues increase d slightly due to the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange and an increase in royalty expense, partially offset by a favorable change in product mix, including an increase in alliance revenues, which have no associated cost of sales. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The increase in Cost of sales of 11% was primarily driven by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange, an increase in royalty expense and an increase in sales volumes. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The increase in Selling, informational and administrative expenses of 6% reflects an increase in the allowance for doubtful trade accounts receivable, resulting from unfavorable developments with a distributor, and additional investment across several of our key products, partially offset by the favorable impact of foreign exchange. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The increase in Research and development expenses of 8% primarily reflects: 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 costs to close-out studies for the global clinical development program for bococizumab that was discontinued in the fourth quarter of 2016; 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 increased costs associated with our oncology programs, primarily our avelumab alliance with Merck KGaA; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 the inclusion of three months of legacy Medivation operations in 2016, 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 the non-recurrence of the $295 million upfront payment made to OPKO in the first quarter of 2015. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The unfavorable change in Other (income)/deductions––net primarily reflects the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange, a net decrease in royalty income and a decrease in our equity income from a certain equity-method investment. 
 Essential Health Operating Segment 
 2017 vs. 2016 
 EH Revenues decrease d 11% to $21.1 billion , reflecting a 10% operational decrease and a 1% an unfavorable of foreign exchange. 
 The following graph illustrates the components of the decrease in EH Revenues : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 LOE generally pertains to period-over-period revenue impacts for products across our portfolios experiencing patent expirations or loss of regulatory exclusivity in certain developed markets. 
 The following provides an analysis of the decrease in EH Revenues : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 EH Revenues , 2016 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 23,627 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Disposition: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Approximately one month of HIS domestic operations and approximately two months of HIS international operations in 2017, compared to twelve months of HIS global operations in 2016 (February 2017 sale) 
 
 
 
 (1,062 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Other operational growth/(decline): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Decline from Peri-LOE Products, primarily due to expected declines in Pristiq in the U.S. as well as Lyrica and Vfend (both primarily in developed Europe markets) 
 
 
 
 (957 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Decline from the Sterile Injectable Pharmaceuticals portfolio, primarily due to legacy Hospira product shortages in the U.S. 
 
 
 
 (315 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Decline in the Legacy Established Products portfolio primarily due to generic competition in developed markets 
 
 
 
 (188 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Growth from Biosimilars, primarily from Inflectra in the U.S. and developed Europe markets 
 
 
 
 209 
 
 
 
 
 Other operational factors, net 
 
 
 
 (13 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Operational decline, net 
 
 
 
 (2,325 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Unfavorable impact of foreign exchange 
 
 
 
 (178 
 
 ) 
 
 
 EH Revenues decrease 
 
 
 
 (2,503 
 
 ) 
 
 
 EH Revenues , 2017 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 21,124 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 50 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total EH revenues from emerging markets were $7.0 billion in 2017 , compared to $6.7 billion in 2016 , reflecting 7% operational growth, primarily driven by 6% operational growth from the Legacy Established Products portfolio and 17% operational growth from the Sterile Injectable Pharmaceuticals portfolio. Foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of 2% . Excluding HIS in both periods, EH revenues in emerging markets grew 8% operationally. 
 Costs and Expenses 
 The changes in EH expenses below reflect, among other things, the favorable impact of the February 2017 sale of HIS. The operating results of HIS are included in EH’s operating results through February 2, 2017 and, therefore, operating results for EH for 2017 include approximately one month of HIS domestic operations and approximately two months of HIS international operations, while operating results for EH for 2016 reflect 12 months of HIS global operations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Cost of sales as a percentage of Revenues increase d 1.6 percentage points primarily due to cost increases reflecting the shift to EH of certain legacy Hospira costs that were previously unallocated to EH as a result of harmonizing the Hospira cost policy, and the impact of product losses of exclusivity, partially offset by the favorable impact of the sale of HIS, which had a higher cost of sales than the other EH products, and the favorable impact of foreign exchange. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The decrease in Cost of sales of 5% primarily reflects: 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 the favorable impact of the sale of HIS, which had a higher cost of sales than the other EH products; 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 the favorable impact of foreign exchange; 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 a net decrease in royalty expense and, to a lesser extent, 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 lower volumes driven by, among other things, the SIP portfolio, primarily due to legacy Hospira product shortages in the U.S., 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 cost increases reflecting the shift to EH of certain legacy Hospira costs that were previously unallocated to EH as a result of harmonizing the Hospira cost policy. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses decrease d 11% primarily due to the favorable impact of the sale of HIS, lower advertising, promotional, and field force expenses, reflecting the benefits of cost-reduction and productivity initiatives , as well as lower expenses associated wi th products that recently lost marketing exclusivity , partially offset by increased spending for biosimilars, primarily related to the U.S. launch of Inflectra. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Research and development expenses decrease d 15% primarily due to decreased spending for biosimilars, the close-out of certain post-marketing clinical trials and the favorable impact of the sale of HIS. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The favorable change in Other (income)/deductions––net primarily reflects the favorable impact of foreign exchange, a gain on the redemption of an acquired bond and an increase in Inflectra royalty income, partially offset by the non-recurrence of a resolution of a contract disagreement in the first quarter of 2016. 
 2016 vs. 2015 
 EH Revenues increase d 7% to $23.6 billion . Foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of 4% . EH Revenues excluding the contribution from the legacy Hospira portfolio, decreased 8%, or 3% operationally. 
 The following graph illustrates the components of the increase in EH Revenues : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 LOE generally pertains to period-over-period revenue impacts for products across our portfolios experiencing patent expirations or loss of regulatory exclusivity in certain developed markets. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 51 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following provides an analysis of the increase in EH Revenues : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 EH Revenues , 2015 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 22,094 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Operational growth/(decline): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Twelve months of revenues from legacy Hospira global operations in 2016, compared to four months of legacy Hospira U.S. operations and three months of legacy Hospira international operations in 2015 
 
 
 
 3,125 
 
 
 
 
 Decline from the Peri-LOE Products portfolio, primarily due to the loss of exclusivity and associated generic competition for certain Peri-LOE Products, primarily Zyvox in the U.S. and certain developed Europe markets as well as Lyrica in certain developed Europe markets 
 
 
 
 (954 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Operational growth in the legacy Pfizer Sterile Injectable Pharmaceuticals portfolio, mostly in emerging markets and the U.S. 
 
 
 
 259 
 
 
 
 
 Other operational factors, net 
 
 
 
 (1 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Operational growth, net 
 
 
 
 2,429 
 
 
 
 
 Unfavorable impact of foreign exchange 
 
 
 
 (895 
 
 ) 
 
 
 EH Revenues increase 
 
 
 
 1,534 
 
 
 
 
 EH Revenues, 2016 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 23,627 
 
 
 Total EH revenues from emerging markets were $6.7 billion in 2016 , compared to $7.1 billion in 2015 , reflecting 7% operational growth, driven by the inclusion of legacy Hospira operations and 17% operational growth from the legacy Pfizer Sterile Injectable Pharmaceuticals portfolio and 3% operational growth from the Legacy Established Products portfolio, which was more than offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of 13% . 
 Costs and Expenses 
 The changes in EH expenses below reflect, among other things, the unfavorable impact of the September 2015 acquisition of Hospira; specifically, the inclusion of a full year of legacy Hospira global operations in 2016, compared to the inclusion of four months of legacy Hospira U.S. operations and three months of legacy Hospira international operations in 2015. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Cost of sales as a percentage of Revenues increase d 4.4 percentage points primarily due to the unfavorable impact of the Hospira acquisition, the unfavorable impact of product losses of exclusivity and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The increase in Cost of sales of 28% was driven by the unfavorable impact of the Hospira acquisition and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange, partially offset by lower volumes across the Legacy Established Products portfolio and the impact of products losing exclusivity. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses decrease d 3% , primarily due to the favorable impact of foreign exchange, lower advertising, promotional and field force expenses, reflecting the benefits of cost-reduction and productivity initiatives, and lower general and administrative expenses, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of the Hospira acquisition. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Research and development expenses increase d 19% reflecting the unfavorable impact of the Hospira acquisition and increased investment primarily in legacy Hospira biosimilar and sterile injectable development programs. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The favorable change in Other (income)/deductions––net primarily reflects resolution of a contract disagreement, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange. 
 
 ANALYSIS OF THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
 
 Changes in the components of Accumulated other comprehensive loss reflect the following: 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Foreign currency translation adjustments, net, primarily reflects the weakening of the U.S. dollar against the euro, U.K. pound and the Canadian dollar, as well as the reclassification of amounts related to (i) the agreement to sell our 40% ownership investment in Teuto and (ii) the sale of our 49% equity share in Hisun Pfizer. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 2D. Acquisitions, Sale of Hospira Infusion Systems Net Assets, Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements, Equity-Method Investments and Cost-Method Investment : Equity-Method Investments. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Unrealized holding gains/(losses) on derivative financial instruments, net and Unrealized holding gains/(losses) on available-for-sale securities, net, reflect the impact of fair value remeasurements and the reclassification of amounts into net income. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 7. Financial Instruments 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Benefit plans: actuarial losses, net, primarily reflects (i) an increase in the actuarial losses due to a decrease in our discount rate assumptions; (ii) an increase in actual returns on plan assets; (iii) the amortization of changes in the pension benefit obligation previously recognized in Other comprehensive income ; and (iv) the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 11. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans and Defined Contribution Plans . 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Foreign currency translation adjustments, net, primarily reflects the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the U.K. pound, Chinese renminbi, Mexican peso, and Argentine peso, partially offset by the weakening of the U.S. dollar against the Australian dollar and Japanese yen. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Unrealized holding gains/(losses) on derivative financial instruments, net and Unrealized holding gains/(losses) on available-for-sale securities, net, reflects the impact of fair value remeasurements and the reclassification of amounts into net income. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 7. Financial Instruments . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 52 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Benefit plans: actuarial losses, net, reflects the actuarial losses related primarily to a decrease in the discount rate, partially offset by (i) the amortization of changes in the pension benefit obligation previously recognized in Other comprehensive income , and (ii) higher actual return on plan assets as compared to the expected return on plan assets. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 11. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans and Defined Contribution Plans and the “Significant Accounting Policies and Application of Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions––Benefit Plans” section of this Financial Review. 
 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Foreign currency translation adjustments, net, reflects primarily the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the euro, Brazilian real, Canadian dollar, Australian dollar, British pound, Mexican peso and Japanese yen. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Unrealized holding gains/(losses) on derivative financial instruments, net and Unrealized holding gains/(losses) on available-for-sale securities, net, reflects the impact of fair value remeasurements and the reclassification of amounts into net income. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 7. Financial Instruments . 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Benefit plans: actuarial losses, net, primarily reflects the reclassification into income of amounts related to (i) the amortization of changes in the pension benefit obligation previously recognized in Other comprehensive income, (ii) lower actual return on plan assets as compared to the expected return on assets, and (iii) settlement activity, as well as the impact of foreign exchange. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 11. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans and Defined Contribution Plans and the “Significant Accounting Policies and Application of Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions––Benefit Plans” section of this Financial Review. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Benefit plans: prior service (costs)/credits and other, net, reflects a $507 million reduction in our U.S. Postretirement Plan obligation due to a plan amendment approved in June 2015 that introduced a cap on costs for certain groups within the plan, partially offset by the reclassification into income of amounts related to (i) amortization of changes in prior service costs and credits previously recognized in Other comprehensive income and (ii) curtailment activity. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 11. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans and Defined Contribution Plans . 
 
 ANALYSIS OF THE CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
 
 For information about certain of our financial assets and liabilities, including Cash and cash equivalents, Short-term investments, Long-term investments, Short-term borrowings, including current portion of long-term debt , and Long-term debt , see the “Analysis of the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows” and the “Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources: Selected Measures of Liquidity and Capital Resources” sections of this Financial Review and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 7. Financial Instruments . 
 For information about certain balances in Trade accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful accounts, s ee also the “Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources: Selected Measures of Liquidity and Capital Resources: Accounts Receivable” section of this Financial Review. 
 
 For information about events and circumstances impacting our tax-related accounts, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 5. Tax Matters . 
 For a description of changes in Total Equity , see the consolidated statements of equity. 
 For information related to changes in Accumulated other comprehensive loss , see the “Analysis of the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income” section of this Financial Review and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 6. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss, Excluding Noncontrolling Interests . 
 
 The changes in our asset and liability accounts as of December 31, 2017 , compared to December 31, 2016 , generally reflect, among other things, the impact of assets acquired and liabilities assumed as part of the acquisition of AstraZeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business, measurement period adjustments related to the acquisition of Medivation, and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates . The following explanations exclude the impact of the acquisition of AstraZeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business, measurement period adjustments related to the acquisition of Medivation, as well as the sale of HIS to ICU Medical and foreign exchange (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 2. Acquisitions, Sale of Hospira Infusion Systems Net Assets, Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements, Equity-Method Investments and Cost-Method Investment and Note 10. Identifiable Intangible Assets and Goodwill for additional information). 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Trade accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful accounts, the change reflects the timing of sales and collections in the normal course of business. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Inventories, the change reflects the build of inventory primarily for and in advance of new or potential product launches and increases to meet targeted levels for certain products in the normal course of business. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Other current assets, the change reflects a decrease in receivables associated with our derivative financial instruments, as well as the timing of receipt and payments in the normal course of business. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For PP&E, the change primarily reflects capital additions in the normal course of business, partially offset by depreciation during the period and reductions due to restructuring efforts. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Identifiable intangible assets, less accumulated amortization , the change primarily reflects: 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 amortization and impairments for the period, 
 partially offset by intangible assets recorded in connection with: 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 the EU and U.S. approvals of Besponsa; 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 the U.S. approval of Bosulif; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 the U.S., EU and Japan approvals of Bavencio. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 53 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 For additional information on impairments for the period, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 4. Other (Income)/Deductions — Net. For additional information on the EU and U.S. approvals of Besponsa and the U.S. approval of Bosulif, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 7E. Financial Instruments: Other Noncurrent Liabilities. For additional information on the U.S. EU and Japan approvals of Bavencio, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 2C. Acquisitions, Sale of Hospira Infusion Systems Net Assets, Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements, Equity-Method Investments and Cost-Method Investment : Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Other noncurrent assets, the change reflects a decrease in receivables associated with our derivative financial instruments and a reduction in long-term VAT receivables, partially offset by an increase in the fair value of plan assets for pension plans in net asset positions and net increases in the normal course of business. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 11C. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans and Defined Contribution Plans: Obligations and Funded Status. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Trade accounts payable, the change reflects the timing of purchases and payments in the normal course of business, including the impact of efforts to improve working capital efficiencies. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Accrued compensation and related items, the decrease reflects 2017 bonus payments made to employees and a reduction related to the termination of a Hospira U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plan, partially offset by current year’s accruals. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 11. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans and Defined Contribution Plans. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Other current liabilities , the change reflects a decrease in liabilities associated with: 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 consideration transferred for Medivation; 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 payments for restructuring activities and payments for liabilities related to the closeout of bococizumab clinical studies; 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 our derivative financial instruments; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 accrued interest due to lower interest rates and timing of payments, 
 partially offset by increases related to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 accrued rebates as a result of higher U.S. contracted sales; 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 a liability related to Ibrance reimbursement agreements; 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 accrued clinical grants associated with our oncology programs, primarily clinical trial spend on Xtandi, talazoparib and our C.difficile vaccine program; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 accruals for the current portion of obligations recorded in connection with the U.S. approval of Bosulif and the EU and U.S. approvals of Besponsa. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Pension benefit obligations, net, the decrease primarily reflects the $1.0 billion voluntary pension contribution we made in January 2017 and an increase in actual returns on plan assets, partially offset by the impact of a decrease in the discount rate used in the measurement of plan obligations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Other noncurrent liabilities , the change reflects a decrease in liabilities associated with: 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 our derivative financial instruments; 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 restructuring and deferred compensation plans; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 the reversal of a contingent liability as a result of exiting our investment in Teuto (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 2D. Acquisitions, Sale of Hospira Infusion Systems Net Assets, Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements, Equity-Method Investments and Cost-Method Investment : Equity Method Investments ), 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 an increase of $355 million to record obligations in connection with the EU and U.S. approvals of Besponsa and $281 million to record obligations in connection with the U.S. approval of Bosulif (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 7E. Financial Instruments: Other Noncurrent Liabilities ); 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 an increase in deferred revenue from milestones from Merck for the ertugliflozin collaboration agreement (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 2C. Acquisitions, Sale of Hospira Infusion Systems Net Assets, Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements, Equity-Method Investments and Cost-Method Investment: Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangement ); and 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 other accruals in the normal course of business. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Treasury stock, the change reflects $5 billion paid to Citibank in February 2017 pursuant to the terms of an accelerated share repurchase agreement. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 12. Equity for additional information. 
 
 ANALYSIS OF THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 17/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 16/15 
 
 
 
 
 Cash provided by/(used in): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Operating activities 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 16,470 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 15,901 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 14,688 
 
 
 
 
 
 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 8 
 
 
 
 
 Investing activities 
 
 
 
 (4,741 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (7,811 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (2,980 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (39 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 Financing activities 
 
 
 
 (13,035 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (8,921 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (10,409 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 46 
 
 
 
 
 
 (14 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Effect of exchange-rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 
 
 
 
 53 
 
 
 
 
 
 (215 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (1,000 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 (79 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Net increase/(decrease) in Cash and cash equivalents 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (1,254 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (1,046 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 298 
 
 
 
 
 
 20 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 Indicates calculation not meaningful or result is equal to or greater than 100%. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 54 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 In the consolidated statements of cash flows, the line ITEM, Other changes in assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions and divestitures , is presented excluding the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, as these changes do not reflect actual cash inflows or outflows, and excluding any other significant non-cash movements. Accordingly, the amounts shown will not necessarily agree with the changes in the assets and liabilities that are presented in our consolidated balance sheets. 
 
 Operating Activities 
 
 2017 v. 2016 
 
 Our net cash provided by operating activities was $16.5 billion in 2017 , compared to $15.9 billion in 2016 . The increase in net cash provided by operating activities reflects the timing of receipts from customers and payments to vendors in the ordinary course of business, partially offset by an increase in benefit plan contributions. In 2017 , the change in the line ITEM Other adjustments, net primarily reflects, among other items: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 a decrease in the provision for bad debt expense; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 an increase in dividends from our investment in ViiV reclassified from operating to investing activities; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 an increase in gains from sales of available-for-sale securities, 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 a non-cash net loss on early retirement of debt under an exchange offer. 
 In 2017 and 2016 , the line ITEM Other changes in assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions and divestitures, primarily reflects changes, in the normal course of business, in trade accounts receivable, inventories, other current assets, other noncurrent assets, trade accounts payable, accrued compensation and other current and noncurrent liabilities. For 2016 , this line ITEM also includes the adjustments necessary to reflect the payments of certain legal claims accrued in prior periods, including for Protonix-related matters. For additional information about accounts receivable, see also the “Selected Measures of Liquidity and Capital Resources: Accounts Receivable” section of this Financial Review. 
 For additional information about changes in other assets and liabilities account balances, see also “Analysis of the Consolidated Balance Sheets” in this Financial Review. 
 
 2016 v. 2015 
 
 Our net cash provided by operating activities was $15.9 billion in 2016 , compared to $14.7 billion in 2015 . The increase in net cash provided by operating activities reflects the increase in our net income after adjustments for the non-cash changes, as well as the timing of receipts from customers and payments to vendors in the ordinary course of business, partially offset by an increase in bonus payments made to employees. 
 In 2016, the change in the line ITEM called Other adjustments, net, primarily reflects, among other items, an increase in the provision for bad debt expense and a decrease in net realized gains on sale of available-for-sale securities, partially offset by the non-cash changes in the equity losses related to Hisun Pfizer and Teuto. In addition, the adoption of a new accounting standard in 2016 required that cash paid by us when directly withholding shares for tax withholding purposes is shown as a cash outflow from financing activities rather than operating activities. 
 In 2016 and 2015 , the line ITEM Other changes in assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions and divestitures, primarily reflects changes, in the normal course of business, in trade accounts receivable, inventories, other current assets, other noncurrent assets, trade accounts payable, accrued compensation and other current and non-current liabilities. For 2016 and 2015, this line ITEM also includes the adjustments necessary to reflect the payments of certain legal claims accrued in prior periods, including for 2016, Protonix-related matters, and for 2015, Neurontin-related matters, partially offset by the deferral of an upfront payment received from Lilly as part of a collaborative arrangement. For additional information about accounts receivable, see also the “Selected Measures of Liquidity and Capital Resources: Accounts Receivable” section of this Financial Review. For additional information about our legal accruals, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 4. Other (Income)/Deductions—Net. 
 
 Investing Activities 
 
 2017 v. 2016 
 
 Our net cash used in investing activities was $4.7 billion in 2017 , compared to net cash used in investing activities of $7.8 billion in 2016 . The change in net cash used in investing activities was primarily attributable to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 a decrease in cash used for acquisitions — cash paid of $1.0 billion, net of cash acquired, primarily for the acquisition of AstraZeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business in 2017 and substantially all of the remaining consideration for the Medivation acquisition, compared to cash paid of $18.4 billion , net of cash acquired, primarily for the acquisitions of Medivation, Bamboo and Anacor in 2016 (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 2A. Acquisitions, Sale of Hospira Infusion Systems Net Assets, Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements, Equity-Method Investments and Cost-Method Investment: Acquisitions ); and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 an increase in Other investing activities, net, including dividends received from our investment in ViiV, 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 lower net proceeds generated from the sale of investments of $14.7 billion in 2017 for cash needs. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 55 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 v. 2015 
 Our net cash used in investing activities was $7.8 billion in 2016 , compared to net cash used in investing activities of $3.0 billion in 2015 . The increase in net cash used in investing activities was primarily attributable to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 net redemptions/proceeds from sale of investments of $12.5 billion in 2016 , compared to net redemptions/proceeds of investments of $14.6 billion in 2015 ; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 cash paid of $18.4 billion , net of cash acquired, primarily for the acquisitions of Medivation, Bamboo and Anacor in 2016 compared to cash paid of $16.5 billion , net of cash acquired, primarily for the acquisition of Hospira and the acquisition of Baxter’s portfolio of marketed vaccines in 2015 (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 2A. Acquisitions, Sale of Hospira Infusion Systems Net Assets, Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements, Equity-Method Investments and Cost-Method Investment: Acquisitions ). 
 
 Financing Activities 
 
 2017 v. 2016 
 Our net cash used in financing activities was $13.0 billion in 2017 , compared to $8.9 billion in 2016 . The increase in net cash used in financing activities was primarily attributable to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the issuance of long-term debt of $5.3 billion in 2017 , compared to $11.0 billion in 2016 (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 7D. Financial Instruments: Long-Term Debt ); and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 $7.7 billion cash dividends paid in 2017 , compared to $7.3 billion in the same period in 2016 , 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 lower repayments on long-term debt of $1.5 billion, compared to 2016 ; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 lower proceeds raised from net short-term borrowings in 2017 of $589 million , compared to 2016 . 
 2016 v. 2015 
 Our net cash used in financing activities was $8.9 billion in 2016 , compared to net cash used in financing activities of $10.4 billion in 2015 . The decrease in net cash used in financing activities was primarily attributable to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the issuance of long-term debt of $11.0 billion on June 3, 2016 and November 21, 2016 ; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 purchases of common stock of $5.0 billion in 2016 , compared to $6.2 billion in 2015 , 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 net payments on short-term borrowings of $714 million in 2016 , compared to net proceeds on short-term borrowings of $4.3 billion in 2015 ; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 higher repayments on long-term debt of $7.7 billion in 2016 , compared to $3.0 billion in 2015 ; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 higher cash dividends paid of $7.3 billion in 2016 , compared to $6.9 billion in 2015 ; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 lower proceeds from the exercise of stock options of $1.0 billion in 2016 , compared to $1.3 billion in 2015 . 
 
 ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 
 
 We rely largely on operating cash flows, short-term investments, short-term commercial paper borrowings and long-term debt to provide for our liquidity requirements. We continue our efforts to improve cash inflows through working capital efficiencies. We target specific areas of focus including accounts receivable, inventories, accounts payable, and other working capital, which allows us to optimize our operating cash flows. Due to our significant operating cash flows as well as our financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we believe that we have, and will maintain, the ability to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future, which include: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the working capital requirements of our operations, including our R&D activities; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 investments in our business; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 dividend payments and potential increases in the dividend rate; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 share repurchases; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the cash requirements associated with our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 paying down outstanding debt; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 contributions to our pension and postretirement plans; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 business-development activities. 
 Our long-term debt is rated high-quality by both S&P and Moody’s. See the “Credit Ratings” section below. As market conditions change, we continue to monitor our liquidity position. We have taken and will continue to take a conservative approach to our financial investments. Both short-term and long-term investments consist primarily of high-quality, highly liquid, well-diversified available-for-sale debt securities. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 56 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Selected Measures of Liquidity and Capital Resources 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following table provides certain relevant measures of our liquidity and capital resources: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 As of December 31, 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS, EXCEPT RATIOS AND PER COMMON SHARE DATA) 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 Selected financial assets: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Cash and cash equivalents (a) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,342 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 2,595 
 
 
 
 
 Short-term investments (a) 
 
 
 
 18,650 
 
 
 
 
 
 15,255 
 
 
 
 
 Long-term investments (a) 
 
 
 
 7,015 
 
 
 
 
 
 7,116 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 27,007 
 
 
 
 
 
 24,967 
 
 
 
 
 Debt: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Short-term borrowings, including current portion of long-term debt 
 
 
 
 9,953 
 
 
 
 
 
 10,688 
 
 
 
 
 Long-term debt 
 
 
 
 33,538 
 
 
 
 
 
 31,398 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 43,491 
 
 
 
 
 
 42,085 
 
 
 
 
 Selected net financial liabilities (b) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (16,484 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (17,118 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Working capital (c) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 10,714 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 7,834 
 
 
 
 
 Ratio of current assets to current liabilities 
 
 
 
 1.35:1 
 
 
 
 
 
 1.25:1 
 
 
 
 
 Total Pfizer Inc. shareholders’ equity per common share (d) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 11.93 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 9.81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 7. Financial Instruments for a description of certain assets held and for a description of credit risk related to our financial instruments held. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 The decrease in selected net financial liabilities was primarily driven by the increase in short-term investments, partially offset by the net increase in long-term debt. We retain a strong financial liquidity position as a result of our net cash provided by operating activities, our high-quality financial asset portfolio and access to capital markets. Both Moody’s and S&P rating agencies maintained our strong investment-grade corporate debt rating subsequent to the acquisitions of Medivation and Anacor. For additional information, see the “Credit Ratings” section of this Financial Review. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 The increase in working capital was primarily due to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 an increase in short-term investments primarily from the cash generated from operations; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 a decrease in short-term borrowings resulting from less long-term debt maturing in the next 12 months; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 an increase in inventory related to new or potential products; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the net impact of foreign currency exchange, 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the timing of accruals, cash receipts and payments in the ordinary course of business; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the sale of HIS assets to ICU Medical. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) 
 
 Represents total Pfizer Inc. shareholders’ equity divided by the actual number of common shares outstanding (which excludes treasury stock). 
 
 For additional information about the sources and uses of our funds, see the “Analysis of the Consolidated Balance Sheets ” and “ Analysis of the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows ” sections of this Financial Review. 
 
 In December 2017, we exchanged approximately £833 million principal amount of senior unsecured notes due 2038 with an interest rate of 6.50% for £ 1.376 billion principal amount of senior unsecured notes due 2043 with an interest rate of 2.735% (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 7D. Financial Instruments: Long-Term Debt ). 
 
 In March 2017, we completed a public offering of $1.065 billion principal amount of senior unsecured notes due 2047 with an interest rate of 4.20% , and on March 6, 2017, we completed a public offering of € 4.0 billion principal amount of senior unsecured notes with a weighted-average effective interest rate of 0.23% (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 7D. Financial Instruments: Long-Term Debt ). 
 
 In November 2016, we completed a public offering of $6.0 billion aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes with a weighted-average effective interest rate of 3.10% . 
 
 In June 2016, we completed a public offering of $5.0 billion aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes with a weighted-average effective interest rate of 2.09% . 
 
 Domestic and International Short-Term Funds 
 
 Many of our operations are conducted outside the U.S., and significant portions of our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments are held internationally. We have generally held up to $10 billion of these short-term funds in U.S. tax jurisdictions. The amount of funds held in U.S. tax jurisdictions can fluctuate due to the timing of receipts and payments in the ordinary course of business and due to other reasons, such as business-development activities. As part of our ongoing liquidity assessments, we regularly monitor the mix of domestic and international cash flows (both inflows and outflows). Given the recent changes in tax law under the TCJA, which includes transitioning U.S. international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a territorial tax system, we have recorded a repatriation tax on deemed repatriated accumulated post-1986 earnings of foreign subsidiaries for which we plan to elect payment over eight years through 2026. See the “Contractual Obligations” section below for additional information. These changes will also allow us to more easily access our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments globally. As a result of the enactment of the TCJA, we expect to repatriate the majority of our cash held internationally in 2018. 
 Accounts Receivable 
 
 We continue to monitor developments regarding government and government agency receivables in several European markets where economic conditions remain challenging and uncertain. Historically, payments from a number of these European governments and government 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 57 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 agencies extend beyond the contractual terms of sale. Specifically, we received delayed payments for 2016 revenues from the Greek government; virtually all Greece government receivables pertain to 2017 revenues. Also, the Greek government restructured its debt to other third parties in the third quarter of 2016. We determined our allowance for doubtful accounts to reflect these events, and have $33 million in net receivables from the Greek government as of December 31, 2017 . Reported revenues from all customers in Greece for the year ended December 31, 2017 were $248 million. 
 
 We believe that our allowance for doubtful accounts is appropriate. Our assessment is based on an analysis of the following: (i) payments received to date; (ii) the consistency of payments from customers; (iii) direct and observed interactions with the governments (including court petitions) and with market participants (for example, the factoring industry); and (iv) various third-party assessments of repayment risk (for example, rating agency publications and the movement of rates for credit default swap instruments). 
 
 As of December 31, 2017 , we had about $307 million aggregate gross accounts receivable from governments and/or government agencies in Spain, Italy, Portugal and Greece where economic conditions remain challenging and uncertain. Such receivables in excess of one year from the invoice date, totaling $21 million, were as follows: $12 million in Portugal; $4 million in Italy; $4 million in Greece; and $1 million in Spain. 
 
 Although certain European governments and government agencies sometimes delay payments beyond the contractual terms of sale, we seek to appropriately balance repayment risk with the desire to maintain good relationships with our customers and to ensure a humanitarian approach to local patient needs. 
 
 We will continue to closely monitor repayment risk and, when necessary, we will continue to adjust our allowance for doubtful accounts. 
 
 Our assessments about the recoverability of accounts receivables can result from a complex series of judgments about future events and uncertainties and can rely heavily on estimates and assumptions. For information about the risks associated with estimates and assumptions, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 1C. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies: Estimates and Assumptions . 
 
 Credit Ratings 
 
 Two major corporate debt-rating organizations, Moody’s and S&P, assign ratings to our short-term and long-term debt. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and the rating is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating organization. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following table provides the current ratings assigned by these rating agencies to our commercial paper and senior unsecured long-term debt: 
 
 
 NAME OF RATING AGENCY 
 
 
 
 Pfizer 
 Commercial Paper 
 
 
 
 Pfizer 
 Long-Term Debt 
 
 
 
 Date of Last Rating Change 
 
 
 
 
 Rating 
 
 
 
 Rating 
 
 
 
 
 Moody’s (a) 
 
 
 
 P-1 
 
 
 
 A1 
 
 
 
 October 2009 
 
 
 S&P (b) 
 
 
 
 A-1+ 
 
 
 
 AA 
 
 
 
 October 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 In September 2016, Moody's updated its credit outlook from negative outlook to stable. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 In April 2016, S&P updated its credit outlook from negative watch to stable. 
 Debt Capacity 
 
 We have available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements with a group of banks and other financial intermediaries. We maintain cash and cash equivalent balances and short-term investments in excess of our commercial paper and other short-term borrowings. As of December 31, 2017 , we had access to $7.8 billion of lines of credit, of which $712 million expire within one year. Of these lines of credit, $7.7 billion were unused, of which our lenders have committed to loan us $7.1 billion at our request. Also, as of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $7.0 billion of unused revolving credit facility expiring in 2022, which may be used to support our commercial paper borrowings. 
 
 Global Economic Conditions––General 
 
 The global economic environment has not had, nor do we anticipate it will have, a material impact on our liquidity or capital resources. Due to our significant operating cash flows, financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we continue to believe that we have, and will maintain, the ability to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future. We monitor our liquidity position continuously in the face of evolving economic conditions. 
 
 Global Economic Conditions––U.K. 
 In June 2016, the U.K. electorate voted in a referendum to leave the EU, which is commonly referred to as “Brexit”. In March 2017, the U.K. government formally notified the European Council of its intention to leave the EU after it triggered Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty to begin the two-year negotiation process establishing the terms of the exit and outlining the future relationship between the U.K. and the EU. Formal negotiations officially started in June 2017. This process continues to be highly complex and the end result of these negotiations may pose certain implications to our research, commercial and general business operations in the U.K. and the EU, including the approval and supply of our products. 
 
 We generated approximately 2% of our worldwide revenues from the U.K. in 2017. However, except for the foreign currency exchange impact from the weakening U.K. pound relative to the U.S. dollar to date, there are no other immediate-term impacts to our business as there has not yet been a formal change in the relationship between the U.K. and the EU. In addition, because of the significant uncertainties associated with the negotiation process, any potential long-term impacts are not currently determinable. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 58 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Global Economic Conditions––Venezuela Operations 
 
 Our Venezuela operations continue to operate with the U.S. dollar as the functional currency due to the hyperinflationary status of the Venezuelan economy. 
 
 In the second quarter of 2015, the Venezuelan government identified three official rates of exchange. These were the CENCOEX rate of 6.3; the SICAD rate of 13.5 (as of February 2018); and the SIMADI rate of 29,000 (as of February 2018). Effective in March 2016, the CENCOEX rate was replaced by the DIPRO rate of 10 (as of February 2018); the SICAD rate ceased to be offered; and the SIMADI rate was planned to be replaced by the DICOM rate. Effective January 26, 2018, the DIPRO rate ceased to be offered. The Venezuelan government continued to publish the SIMADI rate, which was commonly referred to as the DICOM rate, and then began to publish the DICOM rate beginning in August 2017. That SIMADI, now DICOM, rate has grown from 206 in March 2016 to about 29,000 (as of February 2018). Based on conditions in Venezuela, we resolved that our Venezuelan bolivar-denominated net monetary assets that are subject to revaluation are no longer expected to be substantially settled at the Venezuelan government CENCOEX official rate of 6.3 or the DIPRO official rate of 10 , but at a rate of 500 at the end of the second quarter and third quarter of 2016, and 670 at the end of the fourth quarter of 2016, and at the end of the first and second quarters of 2017, and 2,640 at the end of the third quarter of 2017 and 3,345 at the end of the fourth quarter of 2017. 
 
 In 2015, conditions in Venezuela had us resolve that our Venezuelan bolivar-denominated net monetary assets that are subject to revaluation were no longer expected to be settled at the Venezuelan government CENCOEX official rate of 6.3, but at the then SIMADI rate of 200, the lowest official rate. Those conditions included the inability to obtain significant conversions of Venezuelan bolivars related to intercompany U.S. dollar-denominated accounts, an evaluation of the effects of the implementation of a fourth-quarter 2015 operational restructuring, resulting in a restructuring charge of $39 million related to a 36% reduction in our labor force in Venezuela, and our expectation of the changes in Venezuela’s responses to changes in its economy. The effect of that change in expectation was a foreign currency loss of $806 million recorded in the fourth quarter of 2015 included in Other (income)/deductions––net . See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 4. Other (Income)/Deductions—Net. In addition, in the fourth quarter of 2015, we had an inventory impairment loss of $72 million included in Cost of sales . 
 We cannot predict whether there will be further devaluations of the Venezuelan currency or whether our use of the DICOM rate will continue to be supported by evolving facts and circumstances. Further, other potential actions by the Venezuelan government in response to economic uncertainties could impact the recoverability of our investment in Venezuela, which could result in an impairment charge and, under extreme circumstances, could impact our ability to continue to operate in the country in the same manner as we have historically. 
 On July 11, 2016, the Venezuelan government administration announced a new program under a State of Emergency decree that is intended to control the use of raw materials, production and distribution of products, specifically for medicines and foods. It is uncertain how this program will be applied to Pfizer in Venezuela. We continue to operate under adverse conditions in Venezuela and have $12 million of net monetary assets and $39 million of non-monetary assets, excluding inventory carried at lower of cost or net realizable value, in Venezuela at November 30, 2017, our international year-end. 
 
 Contractual Obligations 
 
 Payments due under contractual obligations as of December 31, 2017 , mature as follows: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Years 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 2019-2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 2021-2022 
 
 
 
 
 
 Thereafter 
 
 
 
 
 Long-term debt, including current portion (a) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 37,084 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 3,546 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 6,388 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 4,732 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 22,418 
 
 
 
 
 Interest payments on long-term debt obligations (b) 
 
 
 
 19,269 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,231 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,352 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,099 
 
 
 
 
 
 13,587 
 
 
 
 
 Other long-term liabilities (c) 
 
 
 
 3,058 
 
 
 
 
 
 448 
 
 
 
 
 
 691 
 
 
 
 
 
 602 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,317 
 
 
 
 
 Operating leases 
 
 
 
 1,680 
 
 
 
 
 
 209 
 
 
 
 
 
 321 
 
 
 
 
 
 259 
 
 
 
 
 
 891 
 
 
 
 
 Purchase obligations and other (d) 
 
 
 
 4,524 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,100 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,139 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,091 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,194 
 
 
 
 
 Other taxes payable — deemed repatriated accumulated post-1986 earnings of foreign subsidiaries (e) 
 
 
 
 15,200 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,432 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,432 
 
 
 
 
 
 10,336 
 
 
 
 
 Uncertain tax positions (f) 
 
 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 Long-term debt consists of senior unsecured notes (including fixed and floating rate, foreign currency denominated, and other notes), carried at historical proceeds, as adjusted, and capital lease obligations (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 7. Financial Instruments ). Commitments under capital leases are not significant. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 Our calculations of expected interest payments incorporate only current period assumptions for interest rates, foreign currency translation rates and hedging strategies (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 7. Financial Instruments ), and assume that interest is accrued through the maturity date or expiration of the related instrument. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 Includes expected payments relating to our unfunded U.S. supplemental (non-qualified) pension plans, postretirement plans and deferred compensation plans. Excludes amounts relating to our U.S. qualified pension plans and international pension plans, all of which have a substantial amount of plan assets, because the required funding obligations are not expected to be material and/or because such liabilities do not necessarily reflect future cash payments, as the impact of changes in economic conditions on the fair value of the pension plan assets and/or liabilities can be significant. We made a $500 million voluntary contribution to our U.S. pension plan in February 2018. Also, excludes $5.4 billion of liabilities related to legal matters, employee terminations and the fair value of derivative financial instruments and other, most of which do not represent contractual obligations. See also our liquidity discussion above in this “Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources” section, as well as the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 3. Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives, Note 7A. Financial Instruments: Fair Value Measurements, Note 11E. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans and Defined Contribution Plans: Cash Flows, and Note 17. Commitments and Contingencies. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) 
 
 Includes agreements to purchase goods and services that are enforceable and legally binding and includes amounts relating to advertising, information technology services, employee benefit administration services, and potential milestone payments deemed reasonably likely to occur. Also includes obligations to make guaranteed fixed annual payments over a 9-year period in connection with the U.S. and EU approvals for Besponsa ($443 million) and an obligation to make guaranteed fixed annual payments over a 10-year period for Bosulif ($416 million), both associated with research and development arrangements. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 7E. Financial Instruments: Other Noncurrent Liabilities. Also includes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 59 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 consideration of $300 million ( $125 million in our first fiscal quarter of 2018 and $175 million in January 2019) related to our purchase of AstraZeneca’s small molecule anti-infective business. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 2A. Acquisitions, Sale of Hospira Infusion Systems Net Assets, Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements, Equity-Method Investments and Cost-Method Investment: Acquisitions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (e) 
 
 Represents a $15.2 billion tax liability related to the TCJA repatriation tax for which we plan to elect payment over eight years through 2026 (with the first installment due in April 2019). Our obligations may vary as a result of changes in our uncertain tax positions and/or availability of attributes such as foreign tax and other credit carryforwards. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 5A. Tax Matters: Taxes on Income from Continuing Operations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (f) 
 
 Includes only income tax amounts currently payable. We are unable to predict the timing of tax settlements related to our noncurrent obligations for uncertain tax positions as tax audits can involve complex issues and the resolution of those issues may span multiple years, particularly if subject to negotiation or litigation. 
 The above table includes amounts for potential milestone payments under collaboration, licensing or other arrangements, if the payments are deemed reasonably likely to occur. Payments under these agreements generally become due and payable only upon the achievement of certain development, regulatory and/or commercialization milestones, which may span several years and which may never occur. 
 
 In 2018 , we expect to spend approximately $2.3 billion on property, plant and equipment. We rely largely on operating cash flows to fund our capital investment needs. Due to our significant operating cash flows, we believe we have the ability to meet our capital investment needs and anticipate no delays to planned capital expenditures. 
 
 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 
 
 In the ordinary course of business and in connection with the sale of assets and businesses and other transactions, we often indemnify our counterparties against certain liabilities that may arise in connection with a transaction or that are related to events and activities prior to or following a transaction. If the indemnified party were to make a successful claim pursuant to the terms of the indemnification, we may be required to reimburse the loss. These indemnification obligations generally are subject to various restrictions and limitations. Historically, we have not paid significant amounts under these provisions and, as of December 31, 2017 , the estimated fair value of our indemnification obligations was not significant. 
 Certain of our co-promotion or license agreements give our licensors or partners the rights to negotiate for, or in some cases to obtain under certain financial conditions, co-promotion or other rights in specified countries with respect to certain of our products. 
 
 Share-Purchase Plans and Accelerated Share Repurchase Agreements 
 
 Our October 2014 $11 billion share-purchase plan was exhausted in the first quarter of 2017. In December 2015, the Board of Directors authorized an $11 billion share repurchase program, and share repurchases commenced thereunder in the first quarter of 2017. 
 
 On February 9, 2015 and March 8, 2016, we entered into accelerated share repurchase agreements with GS&Co. to repurchase, in each case, $5 billion of our common stock. 
 
 On February 2, 2017, we entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement with Citibank to repurchase $5 billion of our common stock. 
 In December 2017, the Board of Directors authorized a new $10 billion share repurchase program to be utilized over time. This new program is in addition to the $6.4 billion remaining under the company’s December 2015 authorization as of December 31, 2017. 
 For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 12. Equity. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following table provides the number of shares of our common stock purchased and the cost of purchases under our publicly announced share-purchase plans, including our accelerated share repurchase agreements: 
 
 
 (SHARES IN MILLIONS, DOLLARS IN BILLIONS) 
 
 
 
 2017 (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 (b) 
 
 
 
 
 
 2015 (c) 
 
 
 
 
 Shares of common stock purchased 
 
 
 
 150 
 
 
 
 
 
 154 
 
 
 
 
 
 182 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of purchase 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 5.0 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 5.0 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 6.2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 Represents shares purchased pursuant to an accelerated share repurchase agreement with Citibank entered into on February 2, 2017. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 12. Equity. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 Represents shares purchased pursuant to an accelerated share repurchase agreement entered into on March 8, 2016. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 12. Equity. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 Includes approximately 151 million shares purchased for $5.2 billion pursuant to the accelerated share repurchase agreement entered into on February 9, 2015 (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 12. Equity for additi o nal information), as well as other share repurchases through year-end 2015. 
 
 At December 31, 2017 , our remaining share-purchase authorization was approximately $16.4 billion . 
 Dividends on Common Stock 
 
 We paid dividends on our common stock of $7.7 billion in 2017 , $7.3 billion in 2016 and $6.9 billion in 2015 . In December 2017 , our Board of Directors declared a first-quarter 2018 dividend of $0.34 per share, payable on March 1, 2018 , to shareholders of record at the close of business on February 2, 2018 . The first-quarter 2018 cash dividend will be our 317 th consecutive quarterly dividend. 
 
 Our current and projected dividends provide a return to shareholders while maintaining sufficient capital to invest in growing our businesses and to seek to increase shareholder value. Our dividends are not restricted by debt covenants. While the dividend level remains a decision of Pfizer’s Board of Directors and will continue to be evaluated in the context of future business performance, we currently believe that we can support future annual dividend increases, barring significant unforeseen events. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 60 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS 
 Recently Adopted Accounting Standards 
 See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 1B. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies: Adoption of New Accounting Standards. 
 Recently Issued Accounting Standards, Not Adopted as of December 31, 2017 (Effective January 1, 2018) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following table provides a brief description of recently issued accounting standards, not yet adopted: 
 
 
 Standard/Description 
 
 
 
 Effective Date 
 
 
 
 Effect on the Financial Statements or Other Significant Matters 
 
 
 In May 2014, the FASB issued amended guidance related to revenue from contracts with customers . The new guidance introduces a new principles-based framework for revenue recognition and disclosure. Since its issuance the FASB has issued seven ASUs, amending the guidance and effective date, and the SEC has rescinded certain related SEC guidance. 
 
 
 
 January 1, 2018 
 
 
 
 We have substantially completed our review of the impact of this guidance across our various business arrangements and revenue-related activities, and do not expect the adoption of this standard to have a material impact on our reported Revenues in our consolidated financial statements, revenue recognition processes, or our internal controls. We are reviewing our disclosures for revenue recognition and do not anticipate significant changes will be needed to conform with the disclosure requirements of the new guidance. 
 The interpretation and applicability of the new revenue recognition standard to collaboration arrangements in certain industries is still being assessed. We expect that milestone payments received in our collaboration agreements, which are recorded in Other ( income ) /deductions –– net , and currently amortized over the life of the agreement, will, for many arrangements, be amortized over the remaining development period or sooner, if there is a distinct and separable licensing component. We are required to apply the new rules to existing contracts as if the new principles had always existed, and therefore, upon adoption, we expect to record a cumulative effect adjustment to Retained earnings as of the adoption date in the range of $600 million to $700 million to accelerate what would have been future income under the current rules into prior periods. The financial statement impact on pre-tax income is expected to be less than $100 million in any future annual period. 
 We continue to monitor additional changes, modifications, clarifications or interpretations undertaken by the FASB, which may impact our current conclusions. 
 
 
 In January 2016, the FASB issued an update to its guidance on recognition and measurement of financial assets and liabilities . 
 Among other things, the new guidance makes the following targeted changes to existing guidance: 
 1. Requires certain equity investments to be measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income. However, an entity may choose to measure equity investments that do not have readily determinable fair values at cost minus impairment, if any, plus or minus changes resulting from observable price changes in orderly transactions for the identical or similar investment of the same issuer. 
 2. Requires a qualitative assessment of equity investments without readily determinable fair values to identify impairment. 
 3. Requires separate presentation of financial assets and financial liabilities by measurement category and form of financial asset on the balance sheet or in the accompanying notes to the financial statements. 
 
 
 
 January 1, 2018. 
 
 
 
 We have completed our review of the impact of this new guidance on our consolidated financial statements. As of December 31, 2017, we have $1.2 billion in available-for-sale equity securities and approximately $222 million of restricted stock and private equity securities that will be subject to the new rules. Further, for the year ended December 31, 2017, we recognized $586 million of previously unrealized holding gains and $124 million of previously unrealized losses on available-for-sale equity securities in Other comprehensive income , which would have been recorded to Other (income)/ deductions –– net under the new rules. The net unrealized gain on equity investments subject to the new rules of $462 million as of December 31, 2017 will be recorded as a cumulative effect adjustment to Retained earnings upon adoption on January 1, 2018 . We expect the adoption of this new accounting standard may increase the volatility of our income in future periods due to changes in the fair value of equity investments. We do not expect that the proposed amendment will have any substantive impact to our assessment discussed above. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 61 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Standard/Description 
 
 
 
 Effective Date 
 
 
 
 Effect on the Financial Statements or Other Significant Matters 
 
 
 In August 2016, the FASB issued new guidance on the classification of certain transactions in the Statement of Cash Flows. 
 
 
 
 January 1, 2018. Earlier application is permitted. 
 
 
 
 We have completed our review of the impact of this new guidance on our consolidated financial statements. Retrospective application is required. Upon adoption, we expect to reclassify approximately $378 million and $362 million of cash outflows related to debt redemption in 2017 and 2016, respectively, from operating activities to financing activities. We also expect to reclassify approximately $21 million and $28 million of cash inflows from trust-owned life insurance contracts in 2017 and 2016, respectively, from operating activities to investing activities. Cash outflows from trust-owned life insurance contracts represent benefit payments and are classified as operating activities. Lastly, we expect to reclassify cash outflows attributable to the accreted interest related to commercial paper of $63 million and $33 million in 2017 and 2016, respectively, from financing activities to operating activities. In addition, although there is no impact on the presented historical comparative financial statements, the new guidance may impact the classification of certain cash flows related to contingent consideration in a business acquisition, depending on the ultimate settlement amount of the reported contingency liability. 
 
 
 In October 2016, the FASB issued new guidance on the presentation of restricted cash in the Statement of Cash Flows. 
 
 
 
 January 1, 2018. Earlier application is permitted. 
 
 
 
 We have completed our review of the impact of this new guidance on our consolidated financial statements. Retrospective application is required. Our restricted cash balances as of December 31, 2016 were approximately $46.4 million of short-term restricted cash and $47.6 million of long-term restricted cash. Our restricted cash balances as of December 31, 2017 were approximately $36.8 million of short-term restricted cash and $75.3 million of long-term restricted cash. 
 
 
 In October 2016, the FASB issued an update to its guidance on income tax accounting. The new guidance replaces the prohibition against recognizing current and deferred income taxes for an intra-entity asset transfer until the asset has been sold to an outside party with a requirement to do so, unless the asset transferred is inventory. 
 
 
 
 January 1, 2018. 
 
 
 
 We have substantially completed our review but are currently assessing the potential implications of the recently enacted TCJA. Our analysis of the standard indicates that our estimate of the impact to our consolidated financial statements, using current assumptions, is not material. However, while we currently do not have any specific plans, we cannot predict intercompany asset transfers other than inventory that may occur in the future, as they are dependent on economic and operational factors that may change over time. 
 
 For example, an acquisition might cause us to realign legal entities and to transfer assets between entities as we integrate an acquired company into Pfizer. We anticipate that after adoption, our effective tax rate could be impacted by the immediate recognition of the tax consequences of intercompany asset transfers other than inventory. The impact of adoption is expected to be approximately $200 million and will be recorded as a cumulative effect adjustment to reduce Retained earnings. 
 
 
 In January 2017, the FASB issued new guidance to clarify the definition of a business . The new guidance provides a new framework for determining whether business development transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions (or disposals) of assets or businesses. If the fair value of the gross assets acquired is concentrated in a single identifiable asset, the transaction will not qualify for treatment as a business. The new guidance also requires that to be considered a business, a set of integrated activities and assets must include, at a minimum, an input and a substantive process that together significantly contribute to the ability to create outputs, without regard as to whether a market participant could replace missing elements. In addition, the new guidance narrows the definition of the term “output” to make it consistent with how outputs are described in the updated revenue recognition guidance. 
 
 
 
 January 1, 2018. Earlier application is permitted. 
 
 
 
 We have completed our review of the impact of this new guidance on our consolidated financial statements. The new accounting standard is applicable on a prospective basis upon adoption and therefore has no impact on completed transactions. We expect that subsequent to our adoption date of January 1, 2018, fewer transactions will be accounted for as business acquisitions (decreasing the amount of goodwill incurred and potentially increasing IPR&D expense) or disposals of a business. We will continue to monitor for changes in our business, and business combination or other transactions which might close after adoption and be impacted by this new standard. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 62 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Standard/Description 
 
 
 
 Effective Date 
 
 
 
 Effect on the Financial Statements or Other Significant Matters 
 
 
 In February 2017, the FASB issued amended guidance related to the derecognition of nonfinancial assets. 
 
 
 
 January 1, 2018. Earlier application is permitted. 
 
 
 
 We have completed our review of the impact of this new guidance on our consolidated financial statements. The new guidance applies to the full or partial sale or transfer of nonfinancial assets, including intangible assets, real estate and inventory, under which the gain or loss is the difference between the consideration received and the carrying value of the asset. The new guidance does not impact out-licensing arrangements. We are not expecting a material impact on existing transactions. We will continue to monitor for changes in our business and transactions which might be impacted by this new standard. 
 
 
 In March 2017, the FASB issued guidance on the presentation of net periodic pension and postretirement benefit cost. Under the new rules, entities that sponsor defined benefit plans will present net benefit cost as follows: 
 1. Service cost will be included in the same income statement line items where other employee compensation costs are reported. 
 2. The other components of net benefit cost will be presented outside of income from operations, if such a subtotal is presented. 
 3. Only the service cost component will be capitalized, when applicable (for example, as a cost of inventory, internal-use software, or a self-constructed fixed asset). 
 If a separate line ITEM is used to present the other components of net benefit cost, it should have an appropriate description. If a separate line ITEM or items is not used, the line ITEM or items in the income statement where the other components of net benefit cost are included must be disclosed. 
 
 
 
 January 1, 2018. 
 
 
 
 We have completed our review of the impact of this new guidance on our consolidated financial statements. Upon adoption, the net benefit costs other than service costs will be reclassified to Other ( income ) /deductions –– net from their current classification within Cost of sales, Selling, informational and administrative expenses, and Research and development expenses . Retrospective application is required. Beginning in 2018, we will capitalize only the service cost component of the net benefit costs on a prospective basis. Net benefit cost/(income) other than service costs was $114 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 and $154 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 11. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans and Defined Contribution Plans for further details). 
 
 
 In May 2017, the FASB issued new guidance on the accounting for modifications of share-based payment awards . The new guidance clarifies that changes in the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award be accounted for as a modification unless all the following conditions are met: 
 
 1. The fair value of the modified award is the same as the fair value of the original award immediately before the original award is modified. 
 
 2. The vesting conditions of the modified award are the same as the vesting conditions of the original award immediately before the original award is modified. 
 
 3. The modification does not change the classification of the award as an equity instrument or a liability instrument. 
 
 
 
 January 1, 2018. Early application is permitted, including in interim periods. 
 
 
 
 We have completed our review of the impact of this new guidance on our consolidated financial statements. The new accounting standard is applicable on a prospective basis upon adoption and therefore has no impact on completed transactions. The impact of adopting this guidance will be dependent upon whether we make any future modifications of share-based payment awards, and we have no plans to modify share-based payment awards at this time. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 63 
 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Recently Issued Accounting Standards, Not Adopted as of December 31, 2017 (Effective January 1, 2019 and January 1, 2020) 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following table provides a brief description of recently issued accounting standards, not yet adopted: 
 
 
 Standard/Description 
 
 
 
 Effective Date 
 
 
 
 Effect on the Financial Statements or Other Significant Matters 
 
 
 In February 2016, the FASB issued an update to its guidance on leases . The new ASU provides guidance for both lessee and lessor accounting models. Among other things, the new guidance requires that a right of use asset and a lease liability be recognized for leases with a duration of greater than one year. 
 
 
 
 January 1, 2019. Earlier application is permitted. 
 
 
 
 We have made substantial progress in completing our review of the impact of this new guidance. We anticipate recognition of at least $2 billion of additional assets and corresponding liabilities on our balance sheet. We are currently assessing the potential impact of embedded leases on our consolidated financial statements, given our manufacturing outsourcing, service arrangements and other agreements. In connection with this guidance we will need to design new global processes and technological solutions to provide the appropriate financial accounting and disclosure data. We continue to monitor changes, modifications, clarifications or interpretations undertaken by the FASB, which may impact our conclusions. 
 
 
 In March 2017, the FASB issued new guidance that shortens the amortization period for certain callable debt securities held at a premium . The new guidance requires the premium to be amortized to the earliest call date. 
 
 
 
 January 1, 2019. Early application is permitted, including in interim periods, so long as any adjustments are reflected as of the beginning of the fiscal year that includes the interim period in which the guidance is applied. 
 
 
 
 We are assessing the impact of the provisions of this new guidance on our consolidated financial statements. 
 
 
 In July 2017, the FASB issued new guidance on accounting for certain financial instruments with characteristics of liabilities and equity, and accounting for certain financial instruments with down round features (a feature in a financial instrument that reduces the strike price of an issued financial instrument if the issuer sells shares of its stock for an amount less than the currently stated strike price of the issued financial instrument or issues an equity-linked financial instrument with a strike price below the currently stated strike price of the issued financial instrument). 
 
 
 
 January 1, 2019. Earlier application is permitted. 
 
 
 
 We are assessing the impact of the provisions of this new guidance on our consolidated financial statements. 
 
 
 In August 2017, the FASB issued new guidance making targeted improvements to accounting for hedging activities . The objective of this amendment is to improve financial reporting of hedging relationships to better portray the economic results of an entity’s risk management activities in its financial statements, and also to simplify the application of hedge accounting guidance. 
 
 
 
 January 1, 2019. Early adoption is permitted, including in interim periods. 
 
 
 
 
 We are planning to early adopt this standard in the first quarter of calendar year 2018. We do not expect the adoption to have a material impact on our financial statements. 
 
 
 In February 2018, the FASB issued an update to its guidance on the reclassification of certain tax effects from accumulated other comprehensive income . The new guidance provides an option for us to elect to reclassify the stranded tax amounts related to the TCJA. If reclassified, the reclassification from AOCI to retained earnings for stranded tax effects would include: 
 1. the effect of the change in the U.S. federal corporate tax rate; and 
 2. other stranded tax amounts related to the application of the TCJA that we elect to reclassify, if any. 
 The reclassification, if elected, may be applied either retrospectively or at the beginning of the annual or interim period in which the amendments are adopted. 
 
 
 
 January 1, 2019. Earlier application is permitted. 
 
 
 
 We are evaluating the election and assessing the impact of the provisions of this new guidance on our consolidated financial statements. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 64 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Standard/Description 
 
 
 
 Effective Date 
 
 
 
 Effect on the Financial Statements or Other Significant Matters 
 
 
 In June 2016, the FASB issued new guidance on accounting for credit losses of financial instruments . The new guidance replaces the probable initial recognition threshold for incurred loss estimates in current GAAP with a methodology that reflects expected credit loss estimates. 
 
 
 
 January 1, 2020. Earlier application is permitted as of fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within that fiscal year. 
 
 
 
 We are assessing the impact of the provisions of this new guidance on our consolidated financial statements. Previously, when credit losses were measured under GAAP, an entity generally only considered past events and current conditions in measuring the incurred loss. The new guidance requires us to identify, analyze, document and support new methodologies for quantifying expected credit loss estimates for our financial instruments, using information such as historical experience and current economic environmental conditions, plus the use of reasonable supportable forecast information. 
 
 
 In January 2017, the FASB issued new guidance for goodwill impairment testing . The new guidance eliminates the requirement to perform a hypothetical purchase price allocation to measure goodwill impairment. Under the new guidance the goodwill impairment test is performed by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, and recognizing an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, although it cannot exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. 
 
 
 
 January 1, 2020. Earlier application is permitted. 
 
 
 
 We have not yet completed our review of the impact of this new guidance on our consolidated financial statements. However, we do not expect this new guidance to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 65 
 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION AND FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS 
 
 This report and other written or oral statements that we make from time to time contain forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements involve substantial risks and uncertainties. We have tried, wherever possible, to identify such statements by using words such as “will,” “may,” “could,” “likely,” “ongoing,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “project,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “assume,” “target,” “forecast,” “guidance,” “goal,” “objective,” “aim” and other words and terms of similar meaning or by using future dates in connection with any discussion of, among other things, our anticipated operating and financial performance, business plans and prospects, in-line products and product candidates, including anticipated regulatory submissions, data read-outs, approvals, performance, timing of exclusivity and potential benefits of Pfizer’s products and product candidates, strategic reviews, capital allocation, business-development plans, manufacturing and product supply and plans relating to share repurchases and dividends. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, business plans and prospects, our acquisitions and other business development activities, the disposition of the HIS net assets, prospective products or product approvals, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, plans relating to share repurchases and dividends, government regulation and financial results, including, in particular, the expected impact of the recent hurricanes in Puerto Rico set forth in the “Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook––Our Business––Impact of Recent Hurricanes in Puerto Rico” section of this Financial Review, the anticipated progress in remediation efforts at certain of our Hospira manufacturing facilities set forth in the “Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook––Our Business––Product Manufacturing” section of this Financial Review, the anticipated timeframe for any decision regarding strategic alternatives for Pfizer Consumer Healthcare set forth in the “Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook––Our Strategy––Our Business Development Initiatives” section of this Financial Review, our anticipated liquidity position set forth in the “Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook––The Global Economic Environment” and the “Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources” sections of this Financial Review, the financial impact of the recently passed TCJA set forth in the “Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook––The Global Economic Environment,” “Significant Accounting Policies and Application of Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions—Income Tax Assets and Liabilities,” “Provision/(Benefit) for Taxes on Income—Changes in Tax Laws” and “Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources—Selected Measures of Liquidity and Capital Resources—Contractual Obligations” sections of this Financial Review and in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 1. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies and — Note 5. Tax Matters , plans relating to increasing investment in the U.S. following the expected positive net impact of the TCJA set forth in the “Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook––Our Strategy––Capital Allocation and Expense Management” section of this Financial Review, the financial guidance set forth in the “Our Financial Guidance for 2018 ” section of this Financial Review, the anticipated costs and cost savings, including from our acquisition of Hospira and our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives set forth in the “Costs and Expenses––Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives” section of this Financial Review and in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 3. Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives , the expected plan for repatriating the majority of our cash held internationally in 2018 set forth in the “Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources––Selected Measures of Liquidity and Capital Resources––Domestic and International Short-Term Funds” section of this Financial Review, the benefits expected from our business development transactions, the planned capital spending set forth in the “Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources––Selected Measures of Liquidity and Capital Resources––Contractual Obligations” section of this Financial Review and the contributions that we expect to make from our general assets to the Company’s pension and postretirement plans during 2018 set forth in the “Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources––Selected Measures of Liquidity and Capital Resources––Contractual Obligations” section of this Financial Review and in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 11. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans and Defined Contribution Plans . Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from past results and future plans and projected future results are the following: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the outcome of research and development activities including, without limitation, the ability to meet anticipated pre-clinical and clinical trial commencement and completion dates, regulatory submission and approval dates, and launch dates for product candidates, as well as the possibility of unfavorable pre-clinical and clinical trial results, including unfavorable new clinical data and additional analyses of existing clinical data; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 decisions by regulatory authorities regarding whether and when to approve our drug applications, which will depend on the assessment by such regulatory authorities of the benefit-risk profile suggested by the totality of the efficacy and safety information submitted; decisions by regulatory authorities regarding labeling, ingredients and other matters that could affect the availability or commercial potential of our products; and uncertainties regarding our ability to address the comments received by us from regulatory authorities such as the FDA and the EMA with respect to certain of our drug applications to the satisfaction of those authorities; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the speed with which regulatory authorizations, pricing approvals and product launches may be achieved; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the outcome of post-approval clinical trials, which could result in the loss of marketing approval for a product or changes in the labeling for, and/or increased or new concerns about the safety or efficacy of, a product that could affect its availability or commercial potential; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 risks associated with preliminary, early stage or interim data, including the risk that final results of studies for which preliminary, early stage or interim data have been provided and/or additional clinical trials may be different from (including less favorable than) the preliminary, early stage or interim data results and may not support further clinical development of the applicable product candidate or indication; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the success of external business-development activities, including the ability to satisfy the conditions to closing of announced transactions in the anticipated time frame or at all or to realize the anticipated benefits of such transactions; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 competitive developments, including the impact on our competitive position of new product entrants, in-line branded products, generic products, private label products, biosimilars and product candidates that treat diseases and conditions similar to those treated by our in-line drugs and drug candidates; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 66 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the implementation by the FDA and regulatory authorities in certain other countries of an abbreviated legal pathway to approve biosimilar products, which could subject our biologic products to competition from biosimilar products, with attendant competitive pressures, after the expiration of any applicable exclusivity period and patent rights; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 risks related to our ability to develop and launch biosimilars, including risks associated with “at risk” launches, defined as the marketing of a product by Pfizer before the final resolution of litigation (including any appeals) brought by a third party alleging that such marketing would infringe one or more patents owned or controlled by the third party; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the ability to meet competition from generic, branded and biosimilar products after the loss or expiration of patent protection for our products or competitor products; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the ability to successfully market both new and existing products domestically and internationally; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 difficulties or delays in manufacturing, including delays caused by natural events, such as hurricanes; supply shortages at our facilities; and legal or regulatory actions, such as warning letters, suspension of manufacturing, seizure of product, debarment, injunctions or voluntary recall of a product; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 trade buying patterns; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the impact of existing and future legislation and regulatory provisions on product exclusivity; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 trends toward managed care and healthcare cost containment, and our ability to obtain or maintain timely or adequate pricing or formulary placement for our products; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the impact of any significant spending reductions or cost controls affecting Medicare, Medicaid or other publicly funded or subsidized health programs or changes in the tax treatment of employer-sponsored health insurance that may be implemented; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the impact of any U.S. healthcare reform or legislation, including any repeal, substantial modification or invalidation of some or all of the provisions of the U.S. Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 U.S. federal or state legislation or regulatory action and/or policy efforts affecting, among other things, pharmaceutical product pricing, reimbursement or access, including under Medicaid, Medicare and other publicly funded or subsidized health programs; patient out-of-pocket costs for medicines, manufacturer prices and/or price increases that could result in new mandatory rebates and discounts or other pricing restrictions; the importation of prescription drugs from outside the U.S. at prices that are regulated by governments of various foreign countries; restrictions on direct-to-consumer advertising; limitations on interactions with healthcare professionals; or the use of comparative effectiveness methodologies that could be implemented in a manner that focuses primarily on the cost differences and minimizes the therapeutic differences among pharmaceutical products and restricts access to innovative medicines; as well as pricing pressures for our products as a result of highly competitive insurance markets; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 legislation or regulatory action in markets outside the U.S. affecting pharmaceutical product pricing, reimbursement or access, including, in particular, continued government-mandated reductions in prices and access restrictions for certain biopharmaceutical products to control costs in those markets; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the exposure of our operations outside the U.S. to possible capital and exchange controls, expropriation and other restrictive government actions, changes in intellectual property legal protections and remedies, as well as political unrest, unstable governments and legal systems and inter-governmental disputes; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 contingencies related to actual or alleged environmental contamination; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 claims and concerns that may arise regarding the safety or efficacy of in-line products and product candidates; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 any significant breakdown, infiltration or interruption of our information technology systems and infrastructure; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 legal defense costs, insurance expenses and settlement costs; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the risk of an adverse decision or settlement and the adequacy of reserves related to legal proceedings, including patent litigation, product liability and other product-related litigation, including personal injury, consumer, off-label promotion, securities, antitrust and breach of contract claims, commercial, environmental, government investigations, employment and other legal proceedings, including various means for resolving asbestos litigation, as well as tax issues; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the risk that our currently pending or future patent applications may not result in issued patents, or be granted on a timely basis, or any patent-term extensions that we seek may not be granted on a timely basis, if at all; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 our ability to protect our patents and other intellectual property, both domestically and internationally; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, including the impact of possible currency devaluations in countries experiencing high inflation rates; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 governmental laws and regulations affecting domestic and foreign operations, including, without limitation, tax obligations and changes affecting the tax treatment by the U.S. of income earned outside the U.S. that may result from pending and possible future proposals, including further clarifications and/or interpretations of the recently passed TCJA; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 any significant issues involving our largest wholesale distributors, which account for a substantial portion of our revenues; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the possible impact of the increased presence of counterfeit medicines in the pharmaceutical supply chain on our revenues and on patient confidence in the integrity of our medicines; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the end result of any negotiations between the U.K. government and the EU regarding the terms of the U.K.’s exit from the EU, which could have implications on our research, commercial and general business operations in the U.K. and the EU, including the approval and supply of our products; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 any significant issues that may arise related to the outsourcing of certain operational and staff functions to third parties, including with regard to quality, timeliness and compliance with applicable legal requirements and industry standards; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 any significant issues that may arise related to our joint ventures and other third-party business arrangements; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 changes in U.S. generally accepted accounting principles; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 67 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 further clarifications and/or changes in interpretations of existing laws and regulations, or changes in laws and regulations, in the U.S. and other countries; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 uncertainties related to general economic, political, business, industry, regulatory and market conditions including, without limitation, uncertainties related to the impact on Pfizer, our customers, suppliers and lenders and counterparties to our foreign-exchange and interest-rate agreements of challenging global economic conditions and recent and possible future changes in global financial markets; and the related risk that our allowance for doubtful accounts may not be adequate; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 any changes in business, political and economic conditions due to actual or threatened terrorist activity in the U.S. and other parts of the world, and related U.S. military action overseas; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 growth in costs and expenses; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 changes in our product, segment and geographic mix; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the impact of purchase accounting adjustments, acquisition-related costs, discontinued operations and certain significant items; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the impact of acquisitions, divestitures, restructurings, internal reorganizations, product recalls, withdrawals and other unusual items, including our ability to realize the projected benefits of our cost-reduction and productivity initiatives and of the internal separation of our commercial operations into our current operating structure; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the risk of an impairment charge related to our intangible assets, goodwill or equity-method investments; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 risks related to internal control over financial reporting; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 risks and uncertainties related to our acquisitions of Hospira, Anacor, Medivation and AstraZeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business, including, among other things, the ability to realize the anticipated benefits of those acquisitions, including the possibility that expected cost savings related to the acquisition of Hospira and accretion related to the acquisitions of Hospira, Anacor and Medivation will not be realized or will not be realized within the expected time frame; the risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully; disruption from the transactions making it more difficult to maintain business and operational relationships; risks related to our ability to grow revenues for Xtandi and expand Xtandi into the non-metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer setting; significant transaction costs; and unknown liabilities; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 risks and uncertainties related to our evaluation of strategic alternatives for our Consumer Healthcare business, including, among other things, the ability to realize the anticipated benefits of any strategic alternatives we may pursue for our Consumer Healthcare business, the potential for disruption to our business and diversion of management’s attention from other aspects of our business, the possibility that such strategic alternatives will not be completed on terms that are advantageous to Pfizer, the possibility that we may be unable to realize a higher value for Pfizer Consumer Healthcare through strategic alternatives and unknown liabilities. 
 We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized. Achievement of anticipated results is subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. Investors should bear this in mind as they consider forward-looking statements, and are cautioned not to put undue reliance on forward-looking statements. 
 
 We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law or by the rules and regulations of the SEC. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects. 
 
 Certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions are discussed here and under the heading entitled “Risk Factors” in Part I, ITEM 1A. of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 . We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider any such list to be a complete set of all potential risks or uncertainties. 
 The operating segment information provided in this report does not purport to represent the revenues, costs and income from continuing operations before provision/(benefit) for taxes on income that each of our operating segments would have recorded had each segment operated as a standalone company during the periods presented. 
 
 This report includes discussion of certain clinical studies relating to various in-line products and/or product candidates. These studies typically are part of a larger body of clinical data relating to such products or product candidates, and the discussion herein should be considered in the context of the larger body of data. In addition, clinical trial data are subject to differing interpretations, and, even when we view data as sufficient to support the safety and/or effectiveness of a product candidate or a new indication for an in-line product, regulatory authorities may not share our views and may require additional data or may deny approval altogether. 
 Financial Risk Management 
 
 The objective of our financial risk management program is to minimize the impact of foreign exchange rate movements and interest rate movements on our earnings. We manage these financial exposures through operational means and through the use of third-party instruments. These practices may change as economic conditions change. 
 
 Foreign Exchange Risk 
 
 We operate globally and, as such, we are subject to foreign exchange risk in our commercial operations, as well as in our financial assets (investments) and liabilities (borrowings). Our net investments in foreign subsidiaries are also subject to currency risk. 
 
 On the commercial side, a significant portion of our revenues and earnings is exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. See the “ Our Operating Environment — The Global Economic Environment ” section of this Financial Review for the key currencies in which we operate. We 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 68 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 seek to manage our foreign exchange risk, in part, through operational means, including managing same-currency revenues in relation to same-currency costs and same-currency assets in relation to same-currency liabilities. Where foreign exchange risk cannot be mitigated via operational means, we may use foreign currency forward-exchange contracts and/or foreign currency swaps to manage that risk. 
 
 With respect to our financial assets and liabilities, our primary foreign exchange exposure arises predominantly from short-term and long-term intercompany receivables and payables, and, to a lesser extent, from short-term and long-term investments and debt, where the assets and/or liabilities are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the business entity. 
 We also hedge some forecasted intercompany sales denominated in euro, Japanese yen, Chinese renminbi, U.K. pound, Canadian dollar, and Australian dollar to protect against longer-term movements. 
 
 In addition, under certain market conditions, we may seek to protect against possible declines in the reported net investments of our foreign business entities. In these cases, we may use foreign currency swaps, foreign currency forward-exchange contracts and/or foreign currency debt. 
 
 For details about these and other financial instruments, including fair valuation methodologies, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 7A. Financial Instruments: Fair Value Measurements . 
 The fair values of our financial instrument holdings are analyzed at year-end to determine their sensitivity to foreign exchange rate changes. In this sensitivity analysis, holding all other assumptions constant and assuming that a change in one currency’s rate relative to the U.S. dollar would not have any effect on another currency’s rates relative to the U.S. dollar, if the dollar were to appreciate against all other currencies by 10%, as of December 31, 2017 , the expected adverse impact on our net income would not be significant. 
 
 Interest Rate Risk 
 
 We are subject to interest rate risk on our investments and on our borrowings. We manage interest rate risk in the aggregate, while focusing on Pfizer’s immediate and intermediate liquidity needs. 
 
 With respect to our investments, we strive to maintain a predominantly floating-rate basis position, but our strategy may change based on prevailing market conditions. Our floating-rate assets are subject to the risk that short-term interest rates may fall and, as a result, the investments would generate less interest income. Fixed-rate investments provide a known amount of interest income regardless of a change in interest rates. We sometimes use interest rate swaps in our financial investment portfolio. 
 
 With respect to our long-term borrowings, we strive to maintain a predominantly floating-rate basis position, but here too, we may change our strategy depending upon prevailing market conditions. We generally issue debt with a fixed rate, and then use interest rate swaps to convert it into floating-rate debt as we deem appropriate in the circumstances. This effective floating rate debt serves to offset some of the interest rate risks associated with our short-term and floating-rate investments. 
 
 For details about these and other financial instruments, including fair valuation methodologies, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 7A. Financial Instruments: Fair Value Measurements . 
 
 The fair values of our financial instrument holdings are analyzed at year-end to determine their sensitivity to interest rate changes. In this sensitivity analysis, holding all other assumptions constant and assuming a parallel shift in the interest rate curve for all maturities and for all instruments, if there were a one hundred basis point increase in interest rates as of December 31, 2017 , the expected adverse impact on our net income would not be significant. 
 
 Contingencies 
 
 Legal Matters 
 
 We and certain of our subsidiaries are subject to numerous contingencies arising in the ordinary course of business, such as patent litigation, product liability and other product-related litigation, commercial litigation, environmental claims and proceedings, government investigations and guarantees and indemnifications (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 17. Commitments and Contingencies). 
 
 Certain of these contingencies could result in losses, including damages, fines and/or civil penalties, and/or criminal charges, which could be substantial. 
 
 We believe that our claims and defenses in these matters are substantial, but litigation is inherently unpredictable and excessive verdicts do occur. We do not believe that any of these matters will have a material adverse effect on our financial position. However, we could incur judgments, enter into settlements or revise our expectations regarding the outcome of certain matters, and such developments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the amounts are accrued and/or our cash flows in the period in which the amounts are paid. 
 
 We have accrued for losses that are both probable and reasonably estimable. Substantially all of our contingencies are subject to significant uncertainties and, therefore, determining the likelihood of a loss and/or the measurement of any loss can be complex. Consequently, we are unable to estimate the range of reasonably possible loss in excess of amounts accrued. Our assessments are based on estimates and assumptions that have been deemed reasonable by management, but the assessment process relies heavily on estimates and assumptions that may prove to be incomplete or inaccurate, and unanticipated events and circumstances may occur that might cause us to change those estimates and assumptions. 
 
 Tax Matters 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 69 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 We and certain of our subsidiaries are subject to numerous contingencies arising in the ordinary course of business for tax matters (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 5D. Tax Matters: Tax Contingencies). 
 
 We account for income tax contingencies using a benefit recognition model. If our initial assessment fails to result in the recognition of a tax benefit, we regularly monitor our position and subsequently recognize the tax benefit: (i) if there are changes in tax law, analogous case law or there is new information that sufficiently raise the likelihood of prevailing on the technical merits of the position to “more likely than not”; (ii) if the statute of limitations expires; or (iii) if there is a completion of an audit resulting in a favorable settlement of that tax year with the appropriate agency. We regularly re-evaluate our tax positions based on the results of audits of federal, state and foreign income tax filings, statute of limitations expirations, changes in tax law or receipt of new information that would either increase or decrease the technical merits of a position relative to the “more-likely-than-not” standard. 
 
 Our assessments are based on estimates and assumptions that have been deemed reasonable by management, but our estimates of unrecognized tax benefits and potential tax benefits may not be representative of actual outcomes, and variation from such estimates could materially affect our financial statements in the period of settlement or when the statutes of limitations expire, as we treat these events as discrete items in the period of resolution. Finalizing audits with the relevant taxing authorities can include formal administrative and legal proceedings, and, as a result, it is difficult to estimate the timing and range of possible changes related to our uncertain tax positions, and such changes could be significant. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 70 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
