 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 GLOSSARY OF DEFINED TERMS 
 
 Unless the context requires otherwise, references to “Pfizer,” “the Company,” “we,” “us” or “our” in this 2019 Financial Report (defined below) refer to Pfizer Inc. and its subsidiaries. We also have used several other terms in this 2019 Financial Report, most of which are explained or defined below: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 Financial Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, which was filed as Exhibit 13 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 This Financial Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019, which was filed as Exhibit 13 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019 
 
 
 2019 Form 10-K 
 
 Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019 
 
 
 ABO 
 
 Accumulated benefit obligation 
 
 
 ACA (Also referred to as U.S. Healthcare Legislation) 
 
 U.S. Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act 
 
 
 ACIP 
 
 Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices 
 
 
 ALK 
 
 anaplastic lymphoma kinase 
 
 
 Allergan 
 
 Allergan plc 
 
 
 Alliance revenues 
 
 Revenues from alliance agreements under which we co-promote products discovered or developed by other companies or us 
 
 
 Allogene 
 
 Allogene Therapeutics, Inc. 
 
 
 Akcea 
 
 Akcea Therapeutics, Inc. 
 
 
 AMPA 
 
 α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid 
 
 
 Anacor 
 
 Anacor Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 
 
 
 AOCI 
 
 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income 
 
 
 Array 
 
 Array BioPharma Inc. 
 
 
 Astellas 
 
 Astellas Pharma Inc., Astellas US LLC and Astellas Pharma US, Inc. 
 
 
 ATM-AVI 
 
 aztreonam-avibactam 
 
 
 Bain Capital 
 
 Bain Capital Private Equity and Bain Capital Life Sciences 
 
 
 Bamboo 
 
 Bamboo Therapeutics, Inc. 
 
 
 Biogen 
 
 Biogen Inc. 
 
 
 Biopharma 
 
 Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group 
 
 
 BMS 
 
 Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 
 
 
 BRCA 
 
 BReast CAncer susceptibility gene 
 
 
 CAR T 
 
 chimeric antigen receptor T cell 
 
 
 CDC 
 
 U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 
 
 
 Cellectis 
 
 Cellectis S.A. 
 
 
 Cerevel 
 
 Cerevel Therapeutics, LLC 
 
 
 CHMP 
 
 Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use 
 
 
 CIAS 
 
 cognitive impairment associated with schizophrenia 
 
 
 Citibank 
 
 Citibank, N.A. 
 
 
 CML 
 
 chronic myelogenous leukemia 
 
 
 Developed Markets 
 
 U.S., Western Europe, Japan, Canada, South Korea, Australia, Scandinavian countries, Finland and New Zealand 
 
 
 EC 
 
 European Commission 
 
 
 EGFR 
 
 epidermal growth factor receptor 
 
 
 EH 
 
 Essential Health 
 
 
 EMA 
 
 European Medicines Agency 
 
 
 Emerging Markets 
 
 Includes, but is not limited to, the following markets: Asia (excluding Japan and South Korea), Latin America, Eastern Europe, Africa, the Middle East, Central Europe and Turkey 
 
 
 EPS 
 
 earnings per share 
 
 
 EU 
 
 European Union 
 
 
 FASB 
 
 Financial Accounting Standards Board 
 
 
 FDA 
 
 U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
 
 
 GAAP 
 
 Generally Accepted Accounting Principles 
 
 
 GIST 
 
 gastrointestinal stromal tumors 
 
 
 GPD 
 
 Global Product Development organization 
 
 
 GSK 
 
 GlaxoSmithKline plc 
 
 
 GS&Co. 
 
 Goldman, Sachs & Co. LLC 
 
 
 HER2- 
 
 human epidermal growth factor receptor 2-negative 
 
 
 hGH-CTP 
 
 human growth hormone 
 
 
 HIS 
 
 Hospira Infusion Systems 
 
 
 Hisun 
 
 Zhejiang Hisun Pharmaceuticals Co., Ltd. 
 
 
 Hisun Pfizer 
 
 Hisun Pfizer Pharmaceuticals Company Limited 
 
 
 Hospira 
 
 Hospira, Inc. 
 
 
 HR+ 
 
 hormone receptor-positive 
 
 
 IBT 
 
 Income before tax 
 
 
 ICU Medical 
 
 ICU Medical, Inc. 
 
 
 IH 
 
 Innovative Health 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 i 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ionis 
 
 Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 
 
 
 InnoPharma 
 
 InnoPharma, Inc. 
 
 
 IPR&D 
 
 in-process research and development 
 
 
 IRC 
 
 Internal Revenue Code 
 
 
 IRS 
 
 U.S. Internal Revenue Service 
 
 
 IV 
 
 intravenous 
 
 
 Janssen 
 
 Janssen Biotech, Inc. 
 
 
 J&J 
 
 Johnson & Johnson 
 
 
 JV 
 
 joint venture 
 
 
 King 
 
 King Pharmaceuticals LLC (formerly King Pharmaceuticals, Inc.) 
 
 
 LDL 
 
 low density lipoprotein 
 
 
 LEP 
 
 Legacy Established Products 
 
 
 LIBOR 
 
 London Interbank Offered Rate 
 
 
 Lilly 
 
 Eli Lilly and Company 
 
 
 LOE 
 
 loss of exclusivity 
 
 
 MCC 
 
 Merkel Cell Carcinoma 
 
 
 MCO 
 
 Managed Care Organization 
 
 
 mCRC 
 
 metastatic colorectal cancer 
 
 
 Medivation 
 
 Medivation, Inc. 
 
 
 Merck 
 
 Merck & Co., Inc. 
 
 
 Meridian 
 
 Meridian Medical Technologies, Inc. 
 
 
 Moody’s 
 
 Moody’s Investors Service 
 
 
 Mylan 
 
 Mylan N.V. 
 
 
 NAV 
 
 Net asset value 
 
 
 NDA 
 
 new drug application 
 
 
 NovaQuest 
 
 NovaQuest Co-Investment Fund II, L.P. or NovaQuest Co-Investment Fund V, L.P., as applicable 
 
 
 NSCLC 
 
 non-small cell lung cancer 
 
 
 NYSE 
 
 New York Stock Exchange 
 
 
 OPKO 
 
 OPKO Health, Inc. 
 
 
 OTC 
 
 over-the-counter 
 
 
 PARP 
 
 poly ADP ribose polymerase 
 
 
 PBM 
 
 Pharmacy Benefit Manager 
 
 
 PBO 
 
 Projected benefit obligation 
 
 
 Pharmacia 
 
 Pharmacia Corporation 
 
 
 PPS 
 
 Portfolio Performance Shares 
 
 
 PP&E 
 
 Property, plant & equipment 
 
 
 PSAs 
 
 Performance Share Awards 
 
 
 PsA 
 
 psoriatic arthritis 
 
 
 PTSRUs 
 
 Performance Total Shareholder Return Units 
 
 
 PTUs 
 
 Profit Units 
 
 
 RA 
 
 rheumatoid arthritis 
 
 
 RCC 
 
 renal cell carcinoma 
 
 
 R&D 
 
 research and development 
 
 
 ROU 
 
 right of use 
 
 
 RPI 
 
 RPI Finance Trust 
 
 
 RSUs 
 
 Restricted Stock Units 
 
 
 Sandoz 
 
 Sandoz, Inc., a division of Novartis AG 
 
 
 SEC 
 
 U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission 
 
 
 Servier 
 
 Les Laboratoires Servier SAS 
 
 
 SFJ 
 
 SFJ Pharmaceuticals 
 
 
 Shire 
 
 Shire International GmbH 
 
 
 SI&A 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative 
 
 
 S&P 
 
 Standard and Poor’s 
 
 
 SIP 
 
 Sterile Injectable Pharmaceuticals 
 
 
 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act or TCJA 
 
 Legislation commonly referred to as the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 
 
 
 Teuto 
 
 Laboratório Teuto Brasileiro S.A. 
 
 
 Therachon 
 
 Therachon Holding AG 
 
 
 TSR 
 
 Total Shareholder Return 
 
 
 TSRUs 
 
 Total Shareholder Return Units 
 
 
 UC 
 
 ulcerative colitis 
 
 
 U.K. 
 
 United Kingdom 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 United States 
 
 
 VBP 
 
 volume-based procurement in China 
 
 
 ViiV 
 
 ViiV Healthcare Limited 
 
 
 WRDM 
 
 Worldwide Research, Development and Medical 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ii 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 INTRODUCTION 
 
 See the Glossary of Defined Terms at the beginning of this 2019 Financial Report for terms used throughout this Financial Review . Our Financial Review is provided to assist readers in understanding the results of operations, financial condition and cash flows of Pfizer Inc. and its subsidiaries (the Company). It should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The discussion in this Financial Review contains forward-looking statements that involve substantial risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, such as those discussed in Part 1, ITEM 1A, “Risk Factors” of our 2019 Form 10-K and in the “Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results”, “Our Operating Environment”, "The Global Economic Environment" and “Our Strategy” sections of this Financial Review. 
 
 All trademarks in this Financial Report are the property of their respective owners. 
 
 The Financial Review is organized as follows: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ● 
 
 
 
 Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook 
 
 Beginning on page 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This section provides information about the following: Financial Highlights; Our Business; Our Business Development Initiatives; Our 2019 Performance; Our Operating Environment; The Global Economic Environment; Our Strategy; and Our Financial Guidance for 2020. 
 
 
 
 
 ● 
 
 
 
 Significant Accounting Policies and Application of Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions 
 
 Beginning on page 12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This section discusses those accounting policies and estimates that we consider important in understanding our consolidated financial statements. For additional discussion of our accounting policies, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 1. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies . 
 
 
 
 
 ● 
 
 
 
 Analysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income 
 
 Beginning on page 16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This section includes the following sub-sections: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ○ 
 
 Revenues—Overview 
 
 Beginning on page 16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This sub-section provides a high-level summary of our revenues, including revenue deductions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ○ 
 
 Revenues by Operating Segment and Geography 
 
 Beginning on page 18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This sub-section provides an overview of revenues by segment and geography. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ○ 
 
 Revenues––Selected Product Discussion 
 
 Beginning on page 21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This sub-section provides an overview of several of our biopharmaceutical products. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ○ 
 
 Product Developments––Biopharmaceutical 
 
 Beginning on page 26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This sub-section provides an overview of important biopharmaceutical product developments. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ○ 
 
 Costs and Expenses 
 
 Beginning on page 30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This sub-section provides a discussion about our costs and expenses. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ○ 
 
 Provision/(Benefit) for Taxes on Income 
 
 Beginning on page 33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This sub-section provides a discussion of items impacting our tax provisions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ○ 
 
 Non-GAAP Financial Measure (Adjusted Income) 
 
 Beginning on page 34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This sub-section provides a discussion of an alternative view of performance used by management. 
 
 
 
 
 ● 
 
 
 
 Analysis of Operating Segment Information 
 
 Beginning on page 39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This section provides a discussion of the performance of each of our operating segments. 
 
 
 
 
 ● 
 
 
 
 Analysis of the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
 
 Beginning on page 48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This section provides an analysis of our consolidated cash flows for the three years ended December 31, 2019. 
 
 
 
 
 ● 
 
 
 
 Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources 
 
 Beginning on page 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This section provides an analysis of selected measures of our liquidity and of our capital resources as of December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, as well as a discussion of our outstanding debt and other commitments that existed as of December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018. Included in the discussion of outstanding debt is a discussion of the amount of financial capacity available to help fund Pfizer’s future activities. 
 
 
 
 
 ● 
 
 
 
 New Accounting Standards 
 
 Beginning on page 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This section discusses accounting standards that we have recently adopted, as well as those that recently have been issued, but not yet adopted. 
 
 
 
 
 ● 
 
 
 
 Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results 
 
 Beginning on page 55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This section provides a description of the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in forward-looking statements presented in this Financial Review. 
 
 
 Certain amounts in our Financial Review may not add due to rounding. All percentages have been calculated using unrounded amounts. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 1 
 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OVERVIEW OF OUR PERFORMANCE, OPERATING ENVIRONMENT, STRATEGY AND OUTLOOK 
 
 Financial Highlights 
 
 The following charts provide a summary of certain financial performance (in billions, except per share data): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Total Revenues––$51.8 billion 
 
 2019 Net Cash Flow from Operations––$12.6 billion 
 
 
 A decrease of 4% compared to 2018 
 
 A decrease of 20% compared to 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Reported Diluted EPS––$2.87 
 
 2019 Adjusted Diluted EPS (Non- GAAP )––$2.95* 
 
 
 An increase of 54% compared to 2018 
 
 An increase of 1% compared to 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 For additional information regarding Adjusted diluted EPS (which is a non-GAAP financial measure), including reconciliations of certain GAAP reported to non-GAAP adjusted information, see the “Non-GAAP Financial Measure (Adjusted Income)” section of this Financial Review. We have revised 2018 and 2017 Adjusted diluted EPS to conform with our 2019 presentation (see the “Non-GAAP Financial Measure (Adjusted Income)––Certain Significant Items)” section of this Financial Review). 
 Our Business 
 
 We apply science and our global resources to bring therapies to people that extend and significantly improve their lives through the discovery, development, manufacture and distribution of healthcare products, including innovative medicines and vaccines. We work across developed and emerging markets to advance wellness, prevention, treatments and cures that challenge the most feared diseases of our time. We collaborate with healthcare providers, governments and local communities to support and expand access to reliable, affordable healthcare around the world. Our revenues are derived from the sale of our products and, to a much lesser extent, from alliance agreements, under which we co-promote products discovered or developed by other companies or us (Alliance revenues). 
 At the beginning of our 2019 fiscal year, we began to manage our commercial operations through a new global structure consisting of three business segments––Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group (Biopharma), Upjohn and, through July 31, 2019 , Consumer Healthcare. Biopharma and Upjohn are the only reportable segments. For additional information about this operating structure, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 17A. Segment, Geographic and Other Revenue Information: Segment Information. See the “Our Strategy––Organizing for Growth” section of this Financial Review below and the “Commercial Operations” section in Part I, ITEM 1, “Business” of our 2019 Form 10-K for additional information. 
 The majority of our revenues come from the manufacture and sale of biopharmaceutical products. The biopharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and highly regulated. As a result, we face a number of industry-specific factors and challenges, which can significantly impact our results. These factors include, among others: the loss or expiration of intellectual property rights and the expiration of co-promotion and licensing rights, the ability to replenish innovative biopharmaceutical products, healthcare legislation, pipeline productivity, the regulatory environment, pricing and access pressures and competition. We also face challenges as a result of the global economic environment. For additional information about these factors and challenges, see the “Our Operating Environment” and “The Global Economic Environment” sections of this Financial Review and Part I, ITEM 1A, “Risk Factors” of our 2019 Form 10-K. 
 The financial information included in our consolidated financial statements for our subsidiaries operating outside the U.S. is as of and for the year ended November 30 for each year presented. Pfizer's fiscal year-end for U.S. subsidiaries is as of and for the year ended December 31 for each year presented. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 References to developed and emerging markets in this Financial Review include: 
 
 
 Developed markets 
 
 
 
 U.S., Western Europe, Japan, Canada, South Korea, Australia, Scandinavian countries, Finland and New Zealand 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Emerging markets (include, but are not limited to) 
 
 
 
 Asia (excluding Japan and South Korea), Latin America, Eastern Europe, Africa, the Middle East, Central Europe and Turkey 
 References to operational variances in this Financial Review pertain to period-over-period growth rates that exclude the impact of foreign exchange. The operational variances are determined by multiplying or dividing, as appropriate, our current year U.S. dollar results by the current year average foreign exchange rates and then multiplying or dividing, as appropriate, those amounts by the prior-year period average foreign exchange rates. Although exchange rate changes are part of our business, they are not within our control. Exchange rate changes, however, can mask positive or negative trends in the business; therefore, we believe presenting operational variances provides useful information to evaluate the results of our business. 
 
 On December 22, 2017, the U.S. enacted significant changes to U.S. tax law following the passage and signing of the TCJA. The TCJA is complex and significantly changes the U.S. corporate income tax system by, among other things, reducing the U.S. Federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, transitioning U.S. international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a territorial tax system and imposing a repatriation tax on deemed repatriated accumulated post-1986 earnings of foreign subsidiaries. For information on the TCJA, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 5A . Tax Matters: Taxes on Income from Continuing Operations. 
 
 Our Business Development Initiatives 
 
 We are committed to capitalizing on growth opportunities by advancing our own pipeline and maximizing the value of our in-line products, as well as through various forms of business development, which can include alliances, licenses, joint ventures, collaborations, equity- or debt-based investments, dispositions, mergers and acquisitions. We view our business development activity as an enabler of our strategies, and we seek to generate earnings growth and enhance shareholder value by pursuing a disciplined, strategic and financial approach to evaluating business development opportunities. We continue to evaluate business development transactions that have the potential to strengthen our businesses and their capabilities, such as our acquisitions of Array, Therachon, Hospira, Medivation, Anacor and AstraZeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business, as well as collaborations, and alliance and license agreements with other companies. We assess our businesses, assets and scientific capabilities/portfolio as part of our regular, ongoing portfolio review process and also continue to consider business development activities that will advance our businesses. 
 
 Our significant recent business development activities include: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 License Agreement with Akcea Therapeutics, Inc. –– In October 2019, we entered into a worldwide exclusive licensing agreement for AKCEA-ANGPTL3-LRx, an investigational antisense therapy being developed to treat patients with certain cardiovascular and metabolic diseases, with Akcea, a majority-owned affiliate of Ionis. The transaction closed in November 2019 and we made an upfront payment of $250 million to Akcea and Ionis, which was recorded in Research and development expenses in our fiscal fourth quarter of 2019. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Formation of a New Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture ––On July 31, 2019 , we completed the transaction in which we and GSK combined our respective consumer healthcare businesses into a new consumer healthcare joint venture that operates globally under the GSK Consumer Healthcare name. The joint venture is a category leader in pain relief, respiratory and vitamins, minerals and supplements, and therapeutic oral health and is the largest global OTC consumer healthcare business. In accordance with our domestic and international reporting periods, our financial results, and our Consumer Healthcare segment’s operating results, for 2019 reflect seven months of Consumer Healthcare segment domestic operations and eight months of Consumer Healthcare segment international operations. Assets and liabilities associated with our Consumer Healthcare business were reclassified as held for sale in the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2018. See Note 1A. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies : Basis of Presentation. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Acquisition of Array BioPharma Inc. ––On July 30, 2019 , we acquired Array for $48 per share in cash. The total fair value of the consideration transferred for Array was approximately $11.2 billion ( $10.9 billion , net of cash acquired). Our financial statements for 2019 reflect the assets, liabilities, operating results and cash flows of Array, commencing from the acquisition date . 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Agreement to Combine Upjohn with Mylan N.V. –– On July 29, 2019, we announced that we entered into a definitive agreement to combine Upjohn with Mylan, creating a new global pharmaceutical company, Viatris. Under the terms of the agreement, which is structured as an all-stock, Reverse Morris Trust transaction, Upjohn is expected to be spun off or split off to Pfizer’s shareholders and, immediately thereafter, combined with Mylan. Pfizer shareholders would own 57% of the combined new company, and former Mylan shareholders would own 43% . The transaction is expected to be tax free to Pfizer and Pfizer shareholders. The transaction is anticipated to close in mid-2020, subject to Mylan shareholder approval and satisfaction of other customary closing conditions, including receipt of regulatory approvals. We expect to incur costs of approximately $500 million in connection with fully separating Upjohn, inclusive of $145 million incurred in 2019. Such charges will include costs and expenses related to separation of legal entities and anticipated transaction costs. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Acquisition of Therachon Holding AG ––On July 1, 2019, we acquired all the remaining shares of Therachon for $340 million upfront, plus potential milestone payments of up to $470 million , contingent on the achievement of key milestones in the development and commercialization of the lead asset. The total fair value of the consideration transferred for Therachon was approximately $322 million . Our financial statements for 2019 reflect the assets, liabilities, operating results and cash flows of Therachon, commencing from the acquisition date and, in accordance with our international reporting period, reflect five months of Therachon operations and cash flows. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Sale of Hospira Infusion Systems Net Assets to ICU Medical, Inc. –– On February 3, 2017, we completed the sale of Pfizer’s global infusion systems net assets, HIS, to ICU Medical for up to approximately $900 million , composed of cash and contingent cash consideration, ICU Medical common stock (all of which we sold during 2018) and seller financing . The operating results of HIS are included in our consolidated statement of income through February 2, 2017 and, therefore, our financial results for 2017 reflect one month of HIS domestic operations and two months of HIS international operations. Our financial results for 2019 and 2018 do not reflect any contribution from HIS global operations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Acquisition of AstraZeneca’s Small Molecule Anti-Infectives Business ––On December 22, 2016, which fell in the first fiscal quarter of 2017 for our international operations, we acquired the development and commercialization rights to AstraZeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 3 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 business, primarily outside the U.S. for approximately $1.0 billion , composed of cash and contingent consideration. Our financial statements reflect the assets, liabilities, operating results and cash flows of this business, commencing from the acquisition date and, in accordance with our international reporting period, for 2017 reflect approximately 11 months of the small molecule anti-infectives business operations and cash flows acquired from AstraZeneca. 
 For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 2. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Equity-Method Investments and Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Arrangements and Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements . 
 Our 2019 Performance 
 
 Revenues–– 2019 
 
 Revenues decrease d $1.9 billion , or 4% , to $51.8 billion in 2019 from $53.6 billion in 2018 , reflecting an operational decrease of $545 million , or 1% , and an unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of $1.4 billion , or 3% . 
 The following graph illustrates the components of the net decrease in revenues in 2019 : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 LOE generally pertains to period-over-period revenue impacts for products across our portfolios experiencing patent expirations or loss of regulatory exclusivity in certain developed markets. 
 
 
 
 
 
 ** 
 
 On July 31, 2019 , we completed the transaction in which we and GSK combined our respective consumer healthcare businesses into a new consumer healthcare joint venture that operates globally under the GSK Consumer Healthcare name. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 2. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Equity-Method Investments and Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Arrangements and Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements . 
 The following provides an analysis of the changes in revenues in 2019 : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 53,647 
 
 
 
 
 Operational growth/(decline): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Continued growth from certain key brands (a) 
 
 
 
 2,495 
 
 
 
 
 Higher revenues from continued growth of anti-infective products in China, driven by increased demand for Sulperazon and new launches, the 2018 U.S. launches of immune globulin intravenous products (Panzyga and Octagam) and certain anti-infective launches in international developed and other emerging markets, all in the Hospital products business, higher revenues primarily in the U.S. for Inlyta, Biosimilars, and rare disease products driven by Vyndaqel/Vyndamax and volume-driven growth from Celebrex and Effexor, primarily in Japan and China 
 
 
 
 1,067 
 
 
 
 
 Declines from Lyrica, primarily in the U.S., reflecting significantly lower volume associated with multi-source generic competition that began in July 2019, other Hospital products, Enbrel internationally, Viagra and Upjohn’s authorized generic for Viagra primarily in the U.S., Revatio and Relpax primarily in the U.S., and Norvasc and Lipitor primarily in China and Japan 
 
 
 
 (2,728 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Decline from Consumer Healthcare reflecting the July 31, 2019 completion of the Consumer Healthcare joint venture transaction with GSK 
 
 
 
 (1,436 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Other operational factors, net 
 
 
 
 57 
 
 
 
 
 Operational decline, net 
 
 
 
 (545 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Operational revenues 
 
 
 
 53,102 
 
 
 
 
 Unfavorable impact of foreign exchange 
 
 
 
 (1,352 
 
 ) 
 
 
 2019 Revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 51,750 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 Certain key brands represent Ibrance, Eliquis, Xeljanz and Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13. See the “Analysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income––Revenues––Selected Product Discussion" section of this Financial Review for product analysis information. 
 For worldwide revenues and revenues by geography, for selected products, see the discussion in the “Analysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income––Revenues––Selected Product Discussion” section of this Financial Review. For additional information regarding the primary indications or class of certain products, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 17C. Segment, Geographic and Other Revenue Information : Other Revenue Information . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 4 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 See the “Analysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income –– Revenues –– Overview” and “ –– Revenues by Operating Segment and Geography ” sections of this Financial Review for more information, including a discussion of key drivers of our revenue performance. 
 Income from Continuing Operations Before Provision/(Benefit) for Taxes on Income–– 2019 
 The following provides an analysis of the increase in Income from continuing operations before provision/benefit) for taxes on income for 2019 : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Income from continuing operations before provision/(benefit) for taxes on income for the year ended December 31, 2018 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 11,885 
 
 
 
 
 Unfavorable change in revenues 
 
 
 
 (1,897 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Favorable/(Unfavorable) changes: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Gain on completion of Consumer Healthcare JV transaction 
 
 
 
 8,086 
 
 
 
 
 Lower Cost of sales (a) 
 
 
 
 1,029 
 
 
 
 
 Lower Selling, information and administrative expenses (b) 
 
 
 
 105 
 
 
 
 
 Higher Research and development expenses (c) 
 
 
 
 (644 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Lower Amortization of intangible assets (d) 
 
 
 
 283 
 
 
 
 
 Lower Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs (e) 
 
 
 
 296 
 
 
 
 
 Lower certain asset impairments (f) 
 
 
 
 272 
 
 
 
 
 Higher royalty-related income (f) 
 
 
 
 154 
 
 
 
 
 Favorable change in the fair value of contingent consideration (f) 
 
 
 
 153 
 
 
 
 
 Non-recurrences of net realized losses on sales of investments in debt securities (f) 
 
 
 
 141 
 
 
 
 
 Income from insurance recoveries related to Hurricane Maria (f) 
 
 
 
 50 
 
 
 
 
 Higher charges for certain legal matters (f) 
 
 
 
 (397 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Higher net interest expense (f) 
 
 
 
 (365 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Impact of net periodic benefit costs/(credits) other than service costs (f) 
 
 
 
 (352 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Non-recurrence of gain on equity investment in Cerevel (f) 
 
 
 
 (343 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Lower income from collaborations, out-licensing arrangements and sales of compound/product rights (f) 
 
 
 
 (320 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Higher business and legal entity alignment costs (f) 
 
 
 
 (275 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Higher net losses on early retirement of debt (f) 
 
 
 
 (134 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Lower net gains recognized during the period on equity securities (f) 
 
 
 
 (132 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Non-recurrence of gain on the contribution of Pfizer’s CAR T assets (f) 
 
 
 
 (50 
 
 ) 
 
 
 All other items, net 
 
 
 
 138 
 
 
 
 
 Income from continuing operations before provision/(benefit) for taxes on income for the year ended December 31, 2019 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 17,682 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 See the “Costs and Expenses––Cost of Sales” section of this Financial Review. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 See the “Costs and Expenses––Selling, Informational and Administrative (SI&A) Expenses” section of this Financial Review. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 See the “Costs and Expenses––Research and Development (R&D) Expenses” section of this Financial Review. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) 
 
 See the “Costs and Expenses––Amortization of Intangible Assets ” section of this Financial Review. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (e) 
 
 See the “Costs and Expenses–– Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives ” and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 3 . Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives . 
 
 
 
 
 
 (f) 
 
 See the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 4. Other (Income)/Deductions—Net . 
 For information on our tax provision and effective tax rate see the “Provision/(Benefit) for Taxes on Income” section of this Financial Review and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 5A . Tax Matters: Taxes on Income from Continuing Operations. 
 Our Operating Environment 
 Industry-Specific Challenges 
 
 Intellectual Property Rights and Collaboration/Licensing Rights 
 
 The loss, expiration or invalidation of intellectual property rights, patent litigation settlements with manufacturers and the expiration of co-promotion and licensing rights can have a significant adverse effect on our revenues. Certain of our current products have experienced patent-based expirations or loss of regulatory exclusivity in certain markets in the last few years, and we expect certain products to face significantly increased generic competition over the next few years. For example, Lyrica lost patent protection in the U.S. in June 2019 and multi-source generic competition began in July 2019. Also, the basic product patent for Chantix in the U.S. will expire in November 2020. We expect the impact of reduced revenues due to patent expiries will be significant in 2020, then moderating downward to a much lower level from 2021 through 2025. 
 
 For additional information, including the patent rights we consider most significant in relation to our business as a whole, together with the year in which the basic product patent expires and recent and expected losses of product exclusivity, see the “Patents and Other Intellectual Property Rights” section in Part I, ITEM 1, “Business” of our 2019 Form 10-K. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 5 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 We will continue to aggressively defend our patent rights whenever we deem appropriate. For a discussion of certain recent developments with respect to patent litigation, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 16A1. Contingencies and Certain Commitments : Legal Proceedings –– Patent Litigation . 
 Regulatory Environment/Pricing and Access––U.S. Healthcare Legislation 
 
 In March 2010, the ACA was enacted in the U.S. For additional information, see the “Government Regulation and Price Constraints” section in Part I, ITEM 1, “Business”, of our 2019 Form 10-K. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 We recorded the following amounts as a result of the U.S. Healthcare Legislation: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 Reduction to Revenues , related to the Medicare “coverage gap” discount provision 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 934 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 674 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 450 
 
 
 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses , related to the fee payable to the federal government (which is not deductible for U.S. income tax purposes), based on our prior-calendar-year share relative to other companies of branded prescription drug sales to specified government programs. 2018 reflected a favorable true-up associated with the updated 2017 invoice received from the federal government, which reflected a lower expense than what was previously estimated for invoiced periods. 
 
 
 
 247 
 
 
 
 
 
 184 
 
 
 
 
 
 307 
 
 
 
 Regulatory Environment/Pricing and Access––Government and Other Payer Group Pressures 
 
 The pricing of medicines by pharmaceutical manufacturers and the cost of healthcare, which includes medicines, medical services and hospital services, continues to be important to payers, governments, patients, and other stakeholders. Governments, MCOs and other payor groups continue to seek increasing discounts on our products through a variety of means and could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We believe that medicines are amongst the most powerful tools for patients in curing, treating and preventing illness and disability, and that all patients should have appropriate access to the medicines their doctors prescribe. We may consider a number of factors when determining a medicine’s price, including, for example, its impact on patients and their disease, other available treatments, the medicine’s potential to reduce other healthcare costs (such as hospital stays), and affordability. Within the U.S., in particular, we may also engage with patients, doctors and healthcare plans regarding their views. We also negotiate with insurers, including PBMs and MCOs, often providing significant discounts to them from the list price. The price that patients pay in the U.S. for the medicines their physicians prescribe is ultimately set by healthcare providers and insurers. On average, in the U.S., insurers impose a of higher out-of-pocket burden on patients for prescription medicines than for comparably-priced medical services. We will continue to work with insurance providers, governments and others to improve access to today’s innovative treatments. Certain governments, including the different EU member states, the U.K., China, Japan, Canada, South Korea and some other international markets, provide healthcare at low-to-zero direct cost to consumers at the point of care and have significant power as large single payers to regulate pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system, particularly under recent global financing pressures. Governments may use a variety of cost-containment measures for our pharmaceutical products, including price cuts, mandatory rebates, health technology assessments, forced localization as a condition of market access, “international reference pricing” (i.e., the practice of a country linking its regulated medicine prices to those of other countries), quality consistency evaluation processes and volume-based procurement. For additional information, see the “Government Regulation and Price Constrains” section in Part I, ITEM 1, “Business” of our 2019 Form 10-K. 
 Regulatory Environment––Pipeline Productivity 
 
 The discovery and development of safe, effective new products, as well as the development of additional uses for existing products, are necessary for the continued strength of our businesses. We have encountered increasing regulatory scrutiny of drug safety and efficacy, even as we continue to gather safety and other data on our products, before and after the products have been launched. Our product lines must be replenished over time in order to offset revenue losses when products lose their market exclusivity, as well as to provide for earnings growth. We devote considerable resources to R&D activities. These activities involve a high degree of risk and cost and may take many years, and with respect to any specific R&D project, there can be no assurance that the development of any particular product candidate or new indication for an in-line product will achieve the desired clinical endpoints and safety profile, will be approved by regulators or will be successful commercially. 
 
 During the development of a product, we conduct clinical trials to provide data on the drug’s safety and efficacy to support the evaluation of its overall benefit-risk profile for a particular patient population. In addition, after a product has been approved and launched, we continue to monitor its safety as long as it is available to patients, and postmarketing trials may be conducted, including trials requested by regulators and trials that we do voluntarily to gain additional medical knowledge. For the entire life of the product, we collect safety data and report safety information to the FDA and other regulatory authorities. The FDA and regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions may evaluate potential safety concerns related to a product or a class of products and take regulatory actions in response, such as updating a product’s labeling, restricting the use of a product, communicating new safety information to the public, or, in rare cases, removing a product from the market. 
 
 Product Manufacturing 
 
 We periodically encounter difficulties or delays in manufacturing, including due to suspension of manufacturing or recall of a product, or legal or regulatory actions such as warning letters. For example, Hospira’s manufacturing facility in McPherson, Kansas is currently under the FDA inspection classification of Official Action Indicated (OAI). As a result of this classification, the FDA may refuse to grant premarket approval of applications and/or the FDA may refuse to grant export certificates related to products manufactured at our McPherson site until the site status is upgraded, which upgrade would be based on a re-inspection by the FDA. Future FDA inspections and regulatory activities will further assess the adequacy and sustainability of corrections implemented at the site. Communication with the FDA on the status of the McPherson site is 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 6 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ongoing. For additional information regarding the FDA inspection of the McPherson site, see Part I, ITEM 1A, “Risk Factors––Product Manufacturing, Sales and Marketing Risks” of our 2019 Form 10-K. 
 
 We have been experiencing product shortages for products from the legacy Hospira portfolio, among others, largely driven by capacity constraints, technical issues, supplier quality concerns or unanticipated demand. We have made considerable progress remediating issues at legacy Hospira facilities manufacturing sterile injectables and have substantially improved supply from most of these sites. Continuing product shortage interruption at these and other manufacturing facilities could negatively impact our financial results. 
 
 Competition 
 
 Many of our prescription pharmaceutical products face competition in the form of branded or generic drugs or biosimilars that treat similar diseases or indications. For additional information, see the “Competition” section in Part I, ITEM 1, “Business” of our 2019 Form 10-K. 
 The Global Economic Environment 
 
 In addition to the industry-specific factors discussed above, we, like other businesses of our size, are exposed to the economic cycle, which impacts our biopharmaceutical operations globally. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Governments, corporations, and insurance companies, which provide insurance benefits to patients, have implemented increases in cost-sharing and restrictions on access to medicines, potentially causing patients to switch to generic or biosimilar products, delay treatments, skip doses or use less effective treatments. As discussed above, government financing pressures can lead to negative pricing pressure in various markets where governments take an active role in setting prices, access criteria (e.g., through public or private health technology assessments), or other means of cost control. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Significant portions of our revenues, costs and expenses, as well as our substantial international net assets, are exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. We seek to manage our foreign exchange risk in part through operational means, including managing same-currency revenues in relation to same-currency costs and same-currency assets in relation to same-currency liabilities. Depending on market conditions, foreign exchange risk also is managed through the use of derivative financial instruments and foreign currency debt. As we operate in multiple foreign currencies, including the euro, the Chinese renminbi, the Japanese yen, the Canadian dollar, the U.K. pound and approximately 100 other currencies, changes in those currencies relative to the U.S. dollar will impact our revenues and expenses. If the U.S. dollar were to weaken against another currency, assuming all other variables remained constant, our revenues would increase, having a positive impact on earnings, and our overall expenses would increase, having a negative impact on earnings. Conversely, if the U.S. dollar were to strengthen against another currency, assuming all other variables remained constant, our revenues would decrease, having a negative impact on earnings, and our overall expenses would decrease, having a positive impact on earnings. Therefore, significant changes in foreign exchange rates can impact our results and our financial guidance. 
 The impact of possible currency devaluations in countries experiencing high inflation rates or significant exchange fluctuations, including Venezuela and Argentina, can impact our results and financial guidance . For additional information about our exposure to foreign currency risk, see the “Our Financial Guidance for 2020 ” and the “Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources” sections of this Financial Review. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 In June 2016, the U.K. electorate voted in a referendum to leave the EU, which is commonly referred to as “Brexit”. In March 2017, the U.K. government formally notified the European Council of its intention to leave the EU after it triggered Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty to begin the two-year negotiation process establishing the terms of the exit and outlining the future relationship between the U.K. and the EU. Formal negotiations officially started in June 2017. Following the General Election in December 2019, the new U.K. parliament approved the negotiated withdrawal agreement and the U.K. left the EU on January 31, 2020 with status quo arrangements through a transition period scheduled to end on December 31, 2020. The transition period will be used to negotiate future trade arrangements between the U.K. and the EU. The consequences of the U.K. leaving the EU and the terms of the future trading relationship continue to be highly uncertain, which may pose certain implications to our research, commercial and general business operations in the U.K. and the EU, including the approval and supply of our products. At present, it is still unclear whether and to what extent the U.K. will remain within or aligned to the EU system of medicines regulation, after the end of the transition period. However, both the U.K. and the EU have issued detailed guidance for the industry on how medicines, medical devices and clinical trials will be separately regulated in their respective territories. Pfizer has substantially completed its preparations for Brexit, having made the changes necessary to meet relevant regulatory requirements in the EU and the U.K., through the transition period and afterwards, especially in the regulatory, research, manufacturing and supply chain areas. Between 2018 and 2021, we expect to spend up to approximately $60 million in one-time costs to make these adaptations. 
 We generated approximately 2% of our worldwide revenues from the U.K. in 2019 including the foreign currency exchange impact from the weakening U.K. pound relative to the U.S. dollar to date. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Public health epidemics or outbreaks could adversely impact our business. In December 2019, a novel strain of coronavirus (COVID-19) emerged in Wuhan, Hubei Province, China. While initially the outbreak was largely concentrated in China and caused significant disruptions to its economy, it has now spread to several other countries and infections have been reported globally. The extent to which the coronavirus impacts our operations will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted with confidence, including the duration of the outbreak, new information which may emerge concerning the severity of the coronavirus and the actions to contain the coronavirus or treat its impact, among others. In particular, the continued spread of the coronavirus globally could adversely impact our operations, including among others, our manufacturing and supply chain, sales and marketing and clinical trial operations and could have an adverse impact on our business and our financial results. 
 
 Pfizer maintains a strong financial position while operating in a complex global environment. Due to our significant operating cash flows, financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we continue to believe that we have, and will maintain, the ability to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future. Our long-term debt is rated high quality by both S&P and Moody’s. As market conditions change, we continue to monitor our liquidity position. We have taken and will continue to take a conservative approach to our financial investments. Both short-term and long-term investments consist primarily of high-quality, highly liquid, well-diversified, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 7 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 available-for-sale debt securities. For further discussion of our financial condition and credit ratings, see the “Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources” section of this Financial Review. 
 
 These and other industry-wide factors that may affect our businesses should be considered along with information presented in the “Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results” section of this Financial Review and in Part I, ITEM 1A, “Risk Factors” of our 2019 Form 10-K. 
 Our Strategy 
 We believe that our medicines provide significant value for both healthcare providers and patients, not only from the improved treatment of diseases but also from a reduction in other healthcare costs, such as emergency room or hospitalization costs, as well as improvements in health, wellness and productivity. We continue to actively engage in dialogues about the value of our medicines and how we can best work with patients, physicians and payers to prevent and treat disease and improve outcomes. We continue to work within the current legal and pricing structures, as well as continue to review our pricing arrangements and contracting methods with payers, to maximize patient access and minimize any adverse impact on our revenues. We remain firmly committed to fulfilling our Company’s purpose: Breakthroughs that change patients’ lives . By doing so, we expect to create value for the patients we serve and for our colleagues and shareholders. 
 
 Organizing for Growth 
 We believe we have one of the strongest pipelines we have had in over a decade, and believe we are well positioned for future growth. Additional patent expiries will continue over several years, and we expect the impact of reduced revenues due to patent expiries will be significant in 2020, then moderating downward to a much lower level from 2021 through 2025. This confluence of events has provided us an opportunity to look at and refine how we organize our business to best achieve sustainable growth and to deliver our medicines and vaccines to the maximum number of people who need them. 
 At the beginning of our fiscal year 2019, we began to manage our commercial operations through a new global structure consisting of three businesses, each led by a single manager—Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group (Biopharma), Upjohn and, through July 31, 2019, Pfizer’s Consumer Healthcare business. We designed this new global structure to take advantage of new growth opportunities driven by the evolving and unique dynamics of relevant markets. 
 For additional information about each business, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 17A. Segment, Geographic and Other Revenue Information: Segment Information. 
 We also reorganized our R&D operations as part of our Organizing for Growth reorganization: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The former Worldwide Research and Development organization is renamed Worldwide Research, Development and Medical (WRDM) as we have created a new Worldwide Medical & Safety organization in WRDM that incorporates the former Chief Medical Office as well as the Worldwide Safety function; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The R&D organization within our former Essential Health business has been integrated into the WRDM, GPD and Upjohn organizations, including moving biosimilars into WRDM and GPD and realigning them with the relevant therapeutic areas (e.g., Oncology and Inflammation & Immunology); 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The Regulatory function has been moved from the WRDM organization into the GPD organization; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Late-stage portfolio spend has been moved from our former Innovative Health business to GPD and from our former Essential Health business to GPD and Upjohn. 
 We re-aligned our commercial operations in 2019 for a number of reasons, including: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Bringing biosimilars into our Oncology and Inflammation & Immunology therapeutic categories gives us the potential to leverage our R&D, regulatory and commercial infrastructure within the Biopharma business to more efficiently bring those assets to market; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Creating a business unit (i.e., the Hospital unit within Biopharma) that is solely focused on medicines that are used in hospitals can potentially bring greater focus and attention to serving those customers and developing those relationships; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Giving Upjohn more autonomy with a focus on maximizing the value of its products, particularly in emerging markets, provides it the opportunity to operate as a standalone business within Pfizer with the potential for sustainable modest growth; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 We believe this new structure better positions each business to achieve its growth potential as we transition to a period post-2020 where we expect higher and more sustained revenue growth due to declining LOEs and the potential of our late-stage pipeline. 
 Biopharma seeks to leverage a strong pipeline, organize around operational growth drivers, and capitalize on trends creating long-term growth opportunities, including: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 an aging global population that is generating increased demand for innovative medicines that address patients’ unmet needs; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 advances in both biological science and digital technology that are enhancing the delivery of breakthrough new medicines; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the increasingly significant role of hospitals in healthcare systems. 
 Urbanization and the rise of the middle class in emerging markets, particularly in Asia, provide growth opportunities for the Upjohn business. Our ability to work collaboratively within local markets and to be fast, focused and flexible is intended to position this business to seize these opportunities. Upjohn has distinct and dedicated manufacturing, marketing, regulatory and, subject to limited exceptions, enabling functions that report directly into the business providing autonomy and positioning Upjohn to operate as a true stand-alone division. We created this new structure to, among other things, position Upjohn to optimize its distinct growth potential and provide us with the flexibility to access further opportunities to enhance value. 
 Subsequent to the re-alignment of our commercial operations in 2019, on July 29, 2019, we announced that we entered into a definitive agreement to combine Upjohn with Mylan, creating a new global pharmaceutical company, Viatris. For additional information, see the “Our Business Development Initiatives” section above in this Financial Review. We believe the new company will transform and accelerate Upjohn’s 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 8 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 and Mylan’s ability to serve patients’ needs and expand their capabilities across more than 165 markets. The combination will drive a sustainable, diverse and differentiated portfolio of prescription medicines, complex generics, over-the-counter products and biosimilars supported by commercial and regulatory expertise, established infrastructure, R&D capabilities and manufacturing and supply chain excellence. 
 As we prepare for expected growth, we are focused on creating a simpler, more efficient organization by streamlining structures, processes and governance within each business and the functions that support them. As our innovative pipeline matures based on anticipated progression of current trials and the initiation of new pivotal trials, including new trials for medicines we may acquire or in-license, we will need to increase our R&D investments. In addition, as our pipeline potentially delivers new commercialization opportunities, we will need to increase our investments in new-market-creation activities. We have initiated an enterprise-wide digital effort to accelerate drug development, enhance experiences (patient and physician) and access and leverage technology and robotics to simplify and automate our processes. 
 In the fourth quarter of 2018, we took steps to simplify the organization, increase spans of control and reduce organizational layers, which impacted some managerial roles and responsibilities. We also offered enhancements to certain employee benefits for a short period of time. The expenses related to these enhancements for certain employee benefits did not have a material impact on our 2018 and 2019 results of operations. 
 Transforming to a More Focused Company 
 With the formation of the GSK Consumer Healthcare venture and the pending combination of Upjohn with Mylan, Pfizer is transforming itself into a more focused, global leader in science-based innovative medicines. As a result, we began, in the fourth quarter of 2019, to identify and undertake efforts to ensure our cost base aligns appropriately with our Biopharmaceutical revenue base, which is expected to be 20% less (based on the midpoint of the range for 2020 New Pfizer revenue guidance (see the “Our Financial Guidance for 2020” section of this Financial Review), compared to 2019 total company reported revenue) as a result of both the completed Consumer Healthcare and expected Upjohn transactions. While certain direct costs have transferred or will transfer to the Consumer Healthcare joint venture and to the Upjohn entities, there are indirect costs which are not expected to transfer. In addition, we are taking steps to restructure our organizations to appropriately support and drive the purpose of the three core functions of our focused innovative medicines business: R&D, Manufacturing and Commercial. For additional information, see the “Costs and Expenses–– Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives ” section of this Financial Review. 
 Commercial Operations 
 
 As discussed under “Organizing for Growth”, at the beginning of our 2019 fiscal year, we began to manage our commercial operations through a new global structure consisting of three business segments––Biopharma, Upjohn and, through July 31, 2019, Consumer Healthcare, each led by a single manager. Each operating segment has responsibility for its commercial activities. Upjohn, and through July 31, 2019, Consumer Healthcare are responsible for their own R&D activities while Biopharma receives its R&D services from GPD and WRDM. These services include IPR&D projects for new investigational products and additional indications for in-line products. Each business has a geographic footprint across developed and emerging markets. For additional information on our Commercial Operations, see the “Commercial Operations” section in Part I, ITEM 1, “Business” of our 2019 Form 10-K. For additional information about our operating structure, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 17A. Segment, Geographic and Other Revenue Information : Segment Information. For additional information about the 2019 performance of each of our operating segments, see the “Analysis of Operating Segment Information” section of this Financial Review. 
 Description of Research and Development Operations 
 Innovation is critical to the success of our Company, and drug discovery and development are time-consuming, expensive and unpredictable. Pfizer’s purpose is to deliver breakthroughs that change patients’ lives. R&D is at the heart of fulfilling Pfizer’s purpose as we work to translate advanced science and technologies into the therapies that matter most. 
 Our R&D priorities include: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 delivering a pipeline of highly differentiated medicines and vaccines where Pfizer has a unique opportunity to bring the most important new therapies to patients in need; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 advancing our capabilities that can position Pfizer for long-term R&D leadership; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 advancing new models for partnerships with creativity, flexibility and urgency to deliver innovation to patients as quickly as possible. 
 
 To that end, our R&D primarily focuses on: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Oncology; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Inflammation and Immunology; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Vaccines; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Internal Medicine; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Rare Diseases; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Hospital . 
 For additional information about R&D, see the “Research and Development” section in Part I, ITEM 1, “Business” of our 2019 Form 10-K. For additional information about R&D by operating segment, see the “Analysis of Operating Segment Information” section of this Financial Review. 
 For additional information about our pending new drug applications and supplemental filings, see the “Analysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income––Product Developments––Biopharmaceutical” section of this Financial Review. 
 
 For additional information about recent transactions and strategic investments that we believe have the potential to advance our pipeline, see the “Our Business Development Initiatives” section of this Financial Review above. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 9 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Intellectual Property Rights 
 We continue to vigorously defend our patent rights against increasingly aggressive infringement, and we will continue to support efforts that strengthen worldwide recognition of patent rights while taking necessary steps to ensure appropriate patient access. In addition, we will continue to employ innovative approaches designed to prevent counterfeit pharmaceuticals from entering the supply chain and to achieve greater control over the distribution of our products, and we will continue to participate in the generics market whenever appropriate. Also, the pursuit of valid business opportunities may require us to challenge intellectual property rights held by other companies that we believe were improperly granted. Such challenges may include negotiation and litigation, which may not always be successful. For additional information about our current efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights and certain other patent proceedings, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 16A1. Contingencies and Certain Commitments : Legal Proceedings –– Patent Litigation. For information on risks related to patent protection and intellectual property claims by third parties, see Part I, ITEM 1A, “Risk Factors––Risks Related to Intellectual Property” in our 2019 Form 10-K. 
 Capital Allocation and Expense Management 
 We seek to maintain a strong balance sheet and robust liquidity so that we continue to have the financial resources necessary to take advantage of prudent commercial, research and business development opportunities and to directly enhance shareholder value through share repurchases and dividends. For additional information about our financial condition, liquidity, capital resources, share repurchases (including accelerated share repurchases) and dividends, see the “Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources” section of this Financial Review. For additional information about our recent business development activities, see the “Our Business Development Initiatives” section of this Financial Review above. 
 In December 2019 , our Board of Directors declared a first-quarter 2020 dividend of $0.38 per share, an increase from the $0.36 per-share quarterly dividend paid during 2019 . For additional information, see the “Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources” section of this Financial Review . 
 
 We remain focused on achieving an appropriate cost structure for our company. For additional information about our various initiatives, see the “Our Strategy––Transforming to a More Focused Company” and “Costs and Expenses–– Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives ” sections of this Financial Review and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 3 . Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives . 
 
 Increasing Investment in the U.S. ––After evaluating the expected positive net impact the TCJA will have on us, in early 2018, we decided to take several actions: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Over the five-year period from 2018 through 2022, we plan to invest approximately $5.0 billion in capital projects in the U.S., including the strengthening of our manufacturing presence in the U.S. As part of this plan: 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 in July 2018, we announced that we will increase our commitment to U.S. manufacturing with a $465 million investment to build one of the most technically advanced sterile injectable pharmaceutical production facilities in the world in Portage, Michigan. This U.S. investment will strengthen our capability to produce and supply critical, life-saving injectable medicines for patients around the world, creating an estimated 450 new jobs over the next several years; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 in August 2019, we announced an additional half billion dollar investment for the construction of a state-of-the-art gene therapy manufacturing facility in Sanford, North Carolina. This facility is anticipated to support our continuing investment in gene therapy R&D, similar to Pfizer’s Chapel Hill and Kit Creek, North Carolina R&D sites. This facility would expand our presence in North Carolina. The expanded facility is projected to add approximately 300 new jobs. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 We made a $500 million voluntary contribution to the U.S. Pfizer Consolidated Pension Plan in February 2018. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 In the first quarter of 2018, we paid a special, one-time bonus to virtually all Pfizer colleagues, excluding executives, of $119 million in the aggregate. 
 
 Our Business Development Initiatives 
 As part of our strategy, we are also committed to capitalizing on growth opportunities by advancing our own pipeline and maximizing the value of our in-line products, as well as through various forms of business development, which can include alliances, licenses, joint ventures, collaborations, equity- or debt-based investments, dispositions, mergers and acquisitions. For additional information see the “Our Business Development Initiatives” section of this Financial Review above and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 2. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Equity-Method Investments and Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Arrangements and Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 10 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Our Financial Guidance for 2020 
 2020 Financial Guidance for Total Company 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2020 financial guidance for Total Company is presented below (a), (b) : 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 $48.5 to $50.5 billion 
 
 
 Adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenues 
 
 19.9% to 20.9% 
 
 
 Adjusted selling, informational and administrative expenses 
 
 $12.0 to $13.0 billion 
 
 
 Adjusted research and development expenses 
 
 $8.1 to $8.5 billion 
 
 
 Adjusted other (income)/deductions 
 
 Approximately $800 million of income 
 
 
 Effective tax rate on adjusted income 
 
 Approximately 15.0% 
 
 
 Adjusted diluted EPS 
 
 $2.82 to $2.92 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 The 2020 financial guidance for Total Company reflects the following: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Reflects a full year of revenue and expense contributions from Biopharma and Upjohn , and excludes any impact from the pending Upjohn combination with Mylan. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Does not assume the completion of any business development transactions not completed as of December 31, 2019 , i ncluding any one-time upfront payments associated with such transactions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Includes Pfizer’s pro rata share of the Consumer Healthcare joint venture anticipated earnings, which is recorded in Adjusted other (income)/deductions on a one-quarter lag. Therefore, 2020 financial guidance for Adjusted other (income)/deductions and Adjusted diluted EPS reflects Pfizer’s share of the joint venture’s earnings that were generated in the fourth quarter of 2019 (to be recorded by Pfizer in the first quarter of 2020) as well as Pfizer’s share of the joint venture’s projected earnings during the first three quarters of 2020. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Reflects an anticipated negative revenue impact of $2.4 billion due to recent and expected generic and biosimilar competition for certain products that have recently lost or are anticipated to soon lose patent protection. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Exchange rates assumed are as of mid-January 2020. Reflects the anticipated unfavorable impact of approximately $0.2 billion on revenues and approximately $0.01 on adjusted diluted EPS as a result of changes in foreign exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar compared to foreign exchange rates from 2019. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Guidance for adjusted diluted EPS assumes diluted weighted-average shares outstanding of approximately 5.65 billion shares, which assumes no share repurchases in 2020 . 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 For additional information regarding an understanding of Adjusted income and its components and Adjusted diluted EPS (all of which are non-GAAP financial measures), see the “Non-GAAP Financial Measure (Adjusted Income)” section of this Financial Review. 
 Beginning in 2020, Upjohn began managing Pfizer’s Meridian subsidiary, the manufacturer of EpiPen and other auto-injector products, and the Mylan-Japan collaboration for generic drugs in Japan (established in 2012) (Mylan-Japan). As a result, revenues and expenses associated with Meridian and Mylan-Japan will be reported in Pfizer’s Upjohn business beginning in the first quarter of 2020. In 2019, revenues from Meridian and Mylan-Japan were recorded in Pfizer’s Biopharma business and totaled $598 million, flat operationally, compared with full-year 2018. 
 Pfizer, Upjohn and Mylan are in the process of negotiating the terms on which Pfizer would transfer the Meridian business and/or certain Pfizer assets that currently form part of the Mylan-Japan collaboration to Viatris following the completion of the proposed combination of Upjohn and Mylan. There can be no assurance that any agreement or transaction will result from these negotiations and if the parties are unsuccessful in their efforts to negotiate the terms of such potential transactions, the Meridian business and/or the Pfizer assets that currently form part of the Mylan-Japan collaboration will remain with Pfizer. 
 2020 Financial Guidance for New Pfizer 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2020 financial guidance for New Pfizer is presented below (a), (b) : 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 $40.7 to $42.3 billion 
 
 
 Adjusted IBT Margin (c) 
 
 Approximately 37.0% 
 
 
 Adjusted Diluted EPS 
 
 $2.25 to $2.35 
 
 
 Operating Cash Flow (d) 
 
 $11.0 to $12.0 billion 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 Financial guidance for New Pfizer reflects a full-year 2020 pro-forma view of the company assuming the pending Upjohn combination with Mylan was completed at the beginning of 2020. Therefore, New Pfizer reflects contributions from the Biopharma business as it is presently being managed, which excludes contributions from Pfizer’s Meridian subsidiary and the Pfizer-Mylan strategic collaboration in Japan (Mylan-Japan). Pfizer’s Meridian subsidiary and Mylan-Japan were managed by Pfizer’s Biopharma business in 2019. Financial guidance for New Pfizer also includes the full-year effect of the following items that assume the completion of the Upjohn combination with Mylan: (i) $12 billion of net proceeds from Upjohn to be retained by Pfizer, which Pfizer will use to repay its own existing indebtedness; and (ii) other transaction-related items, such as income from transition services agreements between Pfizer and Viatris. In addition, 2020 financial guidance for New Pfizer Adjusted IBT Margin and Adjusted diluted EPS reflects Pfizer’s share of the earnings generated by the Consumer Healthcare joint venture in fourth-quarter 2019 (to be recorded by Pfizer in first-quarter 2020) as well as Pfizer’s share of the Consumer Healthcare joint venture’s projected earnings during the first three quarters of 2020. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 For additional information regarding an understanding of Adjusted income and its components and Adjusted diluted EPS (all of which are non-GAAP financial measures), see the “Non-GAAP Financial Measure (Adjusted Income)” section of this Financial Review. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 Adjusted income before tax margin (Adjusted IBT margin) is defined as revenue less the sum of Adjusted cost of sales, Adjusted SI&A expenses, Adjusted R&D expenses, Adjusted amortization of intangible assets and Adjusted other (income)/deductions as a percentage of revenue. Adjusted IBT Margin is presented because management believes this performance measure supplements investors’ and other readers’ understanding and assessment of the financial performance of New Pfizer. Adjusted IBT margin is not, and should not be viewed as, a substitute for U.S. GAAP income before tax margin. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) 
 
 Does not include our planned $1.25 billion voluntary contribution to the U.S. qualified pension plans in the second half of 2020. 
 2020 Financial Guidance for Upjohn 
 
 2020 financial guidance for Upjohn now reflects the inclusion of revenues and expenses associated with Meridian and Mylan-Japan, which were previously recorded in Pfizer’s Biopharma business. Except for the shift of Meridian and Mylan-Japan from Biopharma to Upjohn, there are no operational changes to Upjohn’s 2020 financial guidance compared with the preliminary financial targets that were provided in July 2019. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 11 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2020 financial guidance for Upjohn is presented below (a) : 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 $8.0 to $8.5 billion 
 
 
 Adjusted EBITDA (b) 
 
 $3.8 to $4.2 billion 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 Financial guidance for Upjohn assumes a full-year 2020 contribution from the Upjohn business as it is presently being managed, which includes contributions from Pfizer’s Meridian subsidiary and Mylan-Japan. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 Adjusted Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA) is defined as reported U.S. GAAP net income/(loss), and its components, adjusted for interest expense, provision/(benefit) for taxes on income/(loss) and depreciation and amortization, further adjusted to exclude purchase accounting adjustments, acquisition-related costs, discontinued operations and certain significant items (some of which may recur, such as gains on the completion of joint venture transactions, restructuring charges, legal charges or net gains and losses on equity securities, but which management does not believe are reflective of ongoing core operations). Adjusted EBITDA is presented because management believes this performance measure supplements investors’ and other readers’ understanding and assessment of the financial performance of Upjohn. Adjusted EBITDA as defined is not a measurement of financial performance under GAAP, and should not be considered as an alternative to net income/(loss) or cash flow from operations determined in accordance with GAAP. 
 
 Pfizer does not provide guidance for GAAP Reported financial measures (other than revenues) or a reconciliation of forward-looking non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP Reported financial measures on a forward-looking basis because it is unable to predict with reasonable certainty the ultimate outcome of pending litigation, unusual gains and losses, acquisition-related expenses, net gains or losses on investments in equity securities and potential future asset impairments without unreasonable effort. These items are uncertain, depend on various factors, and could have a material impact on GAAP Reported results for the guidance period. 
 For information about our actual costs and anticipated costs and cost savings associated with our various initiatives, see the “Costs and Expenses––Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives” section of this Financial Review and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 3 . Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives. 
 Our 2020 financial guidance is subject to a number of factors and uncertainties as described in the “Our Operating Environment”, “The Global Economic Environment”, “Our Strategy” and “Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results” sections of this Financial Review; and Part I, ITEM 1A, “Risk Factors” of our 2019 Form 10-K. 
 
 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND APPLICATION OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS 
 
 For a description of our significant accounting policies, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 1. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies . Of these policies, the following are considered critical to an understanding of our consolidated financial statements as they require the application of the most subjective and the most complex judgments: Acquisitions (Note 1D); Fair Value (Note 1E); Revenues (Note 1G); Asset Impairments (Note 1L); Tax Assets and Liabilities and Income Tax Contingencies (Note 1P); Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans (Note 1Q); and Legal and Environmental Contingencies (Note 1R). 
 
 Following is a discussion about the critical accounting estimates and assumptions impacting our consolidated financial statements. See also Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 1C. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies: Estimates and Assumptions for a discussion about the risks associated with estimates and assumptions. 
 
 Acquisitions and Fair Value 
 
 For a discussion about the application of fair value to our recent acquisitions, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 2A. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Equity-Method Investments and Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Arrangements and Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements: Acquisitions . 
 
 For a discussion about the application of fair value to our investments, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 7A. Financial Instruments : Fair Value Measurements . 
 
 For a discussion about the application of fair value to our benefit plan assets, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 11D. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans and Defined Contribution Plans : Plan Assets . 
 
 For a discussion about the application of fair value to our asset impairment reviews, see “Asset Impairment Reviews” below. 
 
 Revenues 
 
 Our gross product revenues are subject to a variety of deductions, which generally are estimated and recorded in the same period that the revenues are recognized. Such variable consideration represents chargebacks, rebates, sales allowances and sales returns. These deductions represent estimates of the related obligations and, as such, knowledge and judgment are required when estimating the impact of these revenue deductions on gross sales for a reporting period. 
 
 Historically, our adjustments of estimates, to reflect actual results or updated expectations, have not been material to our overall business. On a quarterly basis, our adjustments of estimates to reflect actual results generally have been less than 1% of revenues, and have resulted in either a net increase or a net decrease in revenues. Product-specific rebates, however, can have a significant impact on year-over-year individual product growth trends. If any of our ratios, factors, assessments, experiences or judgments are not indicative or accurate predictors of our future experience, our results could be materially affected. The sensitivity of our estimates can vary by program, type of customer and geographic location. However, estimates associated with U.S. Medicare, Medicaid and performance-based contract rebates are most at risk for material adjustment because of the extensive time delay between the recording of the accrual and its ultimate settlement, an interval that can generally range up to one year. Because of this time lag, in any given quarter, our adjustments to actual can incorporate revisions of several prior quarters. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 12 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Asset Impairment Reviews 
 
 We review all of our long-lived assets for impairment indicators throughout the year. We perform impairment testing for indefinite-lived intangible assets and goodwill at least annually and for all other long-lived assets whenever impairment indicators are present. When necessary, we record charges for impairments of long-lived assets for the amount by which the fair value is less than the carrying value of these assets. Our impairment review processes are described in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 1L. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies: Amortization of Intangible Assets, Depreciation and Certain Long-Lived Assets. 
 Examples of events or circumstances that may be indicative of impairment include: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 A significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate that could affect the value of the asset. For example, a successful challenge of our patent rights would likely result in generic competition earlier than expected. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 A significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used. For example, restrictions imposed by the FDA or other regulatory authorities could affect our ability to manufacture or sell a product. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 A projection or forecast that indicates losses or reduced profits associated with an asset. This could result, for example, from a change in a government reimbursement program that results in an inability to sustain projected product revenues and profitability. This also could result from the introduction of a competitor’s product that results in a significant loss of market share or the inability to achieve the previously projected revenue growth, as well as the lack of acceptance of a product by patients, physicians and payers. For IPR&D projects, this could result from, among other things, a change in outlook based on clinical trial data, a delay in the projected launch date or additional expenditures to commercialize the product. 
 
 Identifiable Intangible Assets 
 
 As a result of our identifiable intangible asset impairment review work, we recognized a number of impairments of identifiable intangible assets for the years ended December 31, 2019 , 2018 and 2017 . See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 4. Other (Income)/Deductions — Net. 
 When we are required to determine the fair value of intangible assets other than goodwill, we use an income approach, specifically the discounted cash flow method. We start with a forecast of all the expected net cash flows associated with the asset, which includes the application of a terminal value for indefinite-lived assets, and then we apply an asset-specific discount rate to arrive at a net present value amount. Some of the more significant estimates and assumptions inherent in this approach include: the amount and timing of the projected net cash flows, which includes the expected impact of competitive, legal and/or regulatory forces on the projections and the impact of technological risk associated with IPR&D assets, as well as the selection of a long-term growth rate; the discount rate, which seeks to reflect the various risks inherent in the projected cash flows; and the tax rate, which seeks to incorporate the geographic diversity of the projected cash flows. 
 
 While all intangible assets other than goodwill can face events and circumstances that can lead to impairment, in general, intangible assets other than goodwill that are most at risk of impairment include IPR&D assets (approximately $5.9 billion as of December 31, 2019 ) and newly acquired or recently impaired indefinite-lived brand assets. IPR&D assets are high-risk assets, as R&D is an inherently risky activity. Newly acquired and recently impaired indefinite-lived assets are more vulnerable to impairment as the assets are recorded at fair value and are then subsequently measured at the lower of fair value or carrying value at the end of each reporting period. As such, immediately after acquisition or impairment, even small declines in the outlook for these assets can negatively impact our ability to recover the carrying value and can result in an impairment charge. 
 
 Goodwill 
 
 As a result of our goodwill impairment review work, we concluded that none of our goodwill was impaired as of December 31, 2019 , and we do not believe the risk of impairment is significant at this time. 
 
 We first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. Qualitative factors that we consider include, for example, macroeconomic and industry conditions, overall financial performance and other relevant entity-specific events. If we conclude that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, we then perform a quantitative fair value test. 
 
 When we are required to determine the fair value of a reporting unit, as appropriate for the individual reporting unit, we mainly use the income approach but we may also use the market approach, or a weighted-average combination of both approaches. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The income approach is a forward-looking approach to estimating fair value and relies primarily on internal forecasts. Within the income approach, the method that we use is the discounted cash flow method. We start with a forecast of all the expected net cash flows associated with the reporting unit, which includes the application of a terminal value, and then we apply a reporting unit-specific discount rate to arrive at a net present value amount. Some of the more significant estimates and assumptions inherent in this approach include: the amount and timing of the projected net cash flows, which includes the expected impact of technological risk and competitive, legal and/or regulatory forces on the projections, as well as the selection of a long-term growth rate; the discount rate, which seeks to reflect the various risks inherent in the projected cash flows; and the tax rate, which seeks to incorporate the geographic diversity of the projected cash flows. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The market approach is a historical approach to estimating fair value and relies primarily on external information. Within the market approach are two methods that we may use: 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 Guideline public company method—this method employs market multiples derived from market prices of stocks of companies that are engaged in the same or similar lines of business and that are actively traded on a free and open market and the application of the identified multiples to the corresponding measure of our reporting unit’s financial performance. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 13 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 Guideline transaction method—this method relies on pricing multiples derived from transactions of significant interests in companies engaged in the same or similar lines of business and the application of the identified multiples to the corresponding measure of our reporting unit’s financial performance. 
 The market approach is only appropriate when the available external information is robust and deemed to be a reliable proxy for the specific reporting unit being valued; however, these assessments may prove to be incomplete or inaccurate. Some of the more significant estimates and assumptions inherent in this approach include: the selection of appropriate guideline companies and transactions and the determination of applicable premiums and discounts based on any differences in ownership percentages, ownership rights, business ownership forms or marketability between the reporting unit and the guideline companies and transactions. 
 For all of our reporting units, there are a number of future events and factors that may impact future results and that could potentially have an impact on the outcome of subsequent goodwill impairment testing. For a list of these factors, see the “Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results” section of this Financial Review and Part I, ITEM 1A, “Risk Factors” in our 2019 Form 10-K. 
 Benefit Plans 
 
 The majority of our employees worldwide are covered by defined benefit pension plans, defined contribution plans or both. In the U.S., we sponsor both IRC-qualified and supplemental (non-qualified) defined benefit plans and defined contribution plans, as well as other postretirement benefit plans consisting primarily of medical insurance for retirees and their eligible dependents. 
 
 The accounting for benefit plans is highly dependent on actuarial estimates, assumptions and calculations, which can result from a complex series of judgments about future events and uncertainties. The assumptions and actuarial estimates required to estimate the net employee benefit obligations for the defined benefit and postretirement plans include the discount rate; expected salary increases; certain employee-related factors, such as turnover, retirement age and mortality (life expectancy); and healthcare cost trend rates. 
 
 Effective January 1, 2018, accruals for future benefits under the Pfizer Consolidated Pension Plan (our largest U.S. defined benefit plan) and the defined benefit section of the Pfizer Group Pension Scheme (our largest pension plan in the U.K.) were frozen and resulted in elimination of future service costs for the plans. The Pfizer defined contribution savings plan provides additional annual contributions to those previously accruing benefits under the Pfizer Consolidated Pension Plan and active members of the Pfizer Group Pension Scheme started accruing benefits under the defined contribution section of that plan. 
 
 As of December 31, 2019 , the noncurrent portion of our pension benefit obligations, net, increased by approximately $326 million , compared to December 31, 2018 . The increase reflects, among other things, a decrease in the discount rate used in the measurement of plan obligations, partially offset by an increase in the actual returns on plan assets. As of December 31, 2019, the noncurrent portion of our postretirement benefit obligations, net decreased by approximately $247 million , compared to December 31, 2018. The decrease reflects, among other things, plan amendments related to the prescription drug coverage in our U.S. and Puerto Rico Postretirement Plans and changes to the claim cost assumptions, partially offset by the decrease in discount rate. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 11C. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans and Defined Contribution Plans : Obligations and Funded Status . 
 
 Our assumptions reflect our historical experiences and our judgment regarding future expectations that have been deemed reasonable by management. The judgments made in determining the costs of our benefit plans can materially impact our results of operations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following table provides (i) at the end of each year, the expected annual rate of return on plan assets for the following year, (ii) the actual annual rate of return on plan assets achieved in each year, and (iii) the weighted-average discount rate used to measure the benefit obligations at the end of each year for our U.S. qualified pension plans and our international pension plans (a) : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 U.S. Qualified Pension Plans 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Expected annual rate of return on plan assets 
 
 
 
 7.0 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 7.2 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 7.5 
 
 % 
 
 
 Actual annual rate of return on plan assets 
 
 
 
 22.6 
 
 
 
 
 
 (5.3 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 16.2 
 
 
 
 
 Discount rate used to measure the plan obligations 
 
 
 
 3.3 
 
 
 
 
 
 4.4 
 
 
 
 
 
 3.8 
 
 
 
 
 International Pension Plans 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Expected annual rate of return on plan assets 
 
 
 
 3.4 
 
 
 
 
 
 3.9 
 
 
 
 
 
 4.4 
 
 
 
 
 Actual annual rate of return on plan assets 
 
 
 
 10.7 
 
 
 
 
 
 (0.9 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 10.3 
 
 
 
 
 Discount rate used to measure the plan obligations 
 
 
 
 1.7 
 
 
 
 
 
 2.5 
 
 
 
 
 
 2.3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 For detailed assumptions associated with our benefit plans, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 11B. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans and Defined Contribution Plans: Actuarial Assumptions. 
 Expected Annual Rate of Return on Plan Assets 
 
 The assumptions for the expected annual rate of return on all of our plan assets reflect our actual historical return experience and our long-term assessment of forward-looking return expectations by asset classes, which is used to develop a weighted-average expected return based on the implementation of our targeted asset allocation in our respective plans. 
 
 The expected annual rate of return on plan assets for our U.S. plans and the majority of our international plans is applied to the fair value of plan assets at each year-end and the resulting amount is reflected in our net periodic benefit costs in the following year. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 14 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following table illustrates the sensitivity of net periodic benefit costs to a 50 basis point decline in our assumption for the expected annual rate of return on plan assets, holding all other assumptions constant (in millions, pre-tax): 
 
 
 Assumption 
 
 
 
 Change 
 
 
 
 Increase in 2020 Net Periodic Benefit Costs 
 
 
 Expected annual rate of return on plan assets 
 
 
 
 50 basis point decline 
 
 
 
 $110 
 
 The actual return on plan assets was approximately $3.7 billion during 2019 . 
 
 Discount Rate Used to Measure Plan Obligations 
 
 The weighted-average discount rate used to measure the plan obligations for our U.S. defined benefit plans is determined at least annually and evaluated and modified, as required, to reflect the prevailing market rate of a portfolio of high-quality fixed income investments, rated AA/Aa or better, that reflect the rates at which the pension benefits could be effectively settled. The discount rate used to measure the plan obligations for our international plans is determined at least annually by reference to investment grade corporate bonds, rated AA/Aa or better, including, when there is sufficient data, a yield-curve approach. These discount rate determinations are made in consideration of local requirements. 
 
 The measurement of the plan obligations at the end of the year will affect the amount of service cost, interest cost and amortization expense reflected in our net periodic benefit costs in the following year. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following table illustrates the sensitivity of net periodic benefit costs and benefit obligations to a 10 basis point decline in our assumption for the discount rate, holding all other assumptions constant (in millions, pre-tax): 
 
 
 Assumption 
 
 
 
 Change 
 
 
 
 Increase in 2020 Net Periodic Benefit Costs 
 
 
 
 2019 Benefit Obligations 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Increase 
 
 
 
 Increase 
 
 
 Discount rate 
 
 
 
 10 basis point decline 
 
 
 
 $4 
 
 
 
 $461 
 
 The change in the discount rates used in measuring our plan obligations as of December 31, 2019 resulted in an increase in the measurement of our aggregate plan obligations by approximately $3.2 billion . 
 Income Tax Assets and Liabilities 
 
 In the fourth quarter of 2017, we recorded an estimate of certain tax effects of the TCJA, including (i) the impact on deferred tax assets and liabilities from the reduction in the U.S. Federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% , (ii) the impact on valuation allowances and other state income tax considerations, (iii) a repatriation tax liability on accumulated post-1986 foreign earnings for which we elected, with the filing of our 2018 U.S. Federal Consolidated Income Tax Return, payment over eight years through 2026, and (iv) deferred taxes on basis differences expected to give rise to future taxes on global intangible low-taxed income. In addition, we had provided deferred tax liabilities in the past on foreign earnings that were not indefinitely reinvested. As a result of the TCJA, in the fourth quarter of 2017, we reversed an estimate of the deferred taxes that are no longer expected to be needed due to the change to the territorial tax system. 
 The TCJA subjects a U.S. shareholder to current tax on global intangible low-taxed income earned by certain foreign subsidiaries. The FASB Staff Q&A, Topic 740, No. 5, Accounting for Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income , states that we are permitted to make an accounting policy election to either recognize deferred taxes for temporary basis differences expected to reverse as global intangible low-taxed income in future years or provide for the tax expense related to such income in the year the tax is incurred. We elected to recognize deferred taxes for temporary differences expected to reverse as global intangible low-taxed income in future years. We were able to make a reasonable estimate of the deferred taxes on the temporary differences expected to reverse in the future and provided a provisional deferred tax liability as of December 31, 2017. 
 In 2018, we finalized our provisional accounting for the tax effects of the TCJA based on our best estimates of available information and data, and reported and disclosed the impacts within the applicable measurement period, in accordance with guidance issued by the SEC. We believe that there may be additional interpretations, clarifications and guidance from the U.S. Department of Treasury. Any change to our calculations resulting from such additional interpretations, clarifications and guidance would be reflected in the period of issuance. In addition, our obligations may vary as a result of changes in our uncertain tax positions and/or availability of attributes such as foreign tax and other credit carryforwards. The current portion of the aforementioned repatriation tax liability is reported in current Income taxes payable in our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2019 (approximately $600 million due in April 2020) and the remaining liability is reported in noncurrent Other taxes payable in our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2019. The first installment of $750 million was paid in April 2019. 
 Income tax assets and liabilities also include income tax valuation allowances and accruals for uncertain tax positions. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 1C. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies: Estimates and Assumptions ; Note 1P. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies: Tax Assets and Liabilities and Income Tax Contingencies and Note 5A. Tax Matters: Taxes on Income from Continuing Operations, as well as the “Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources––Selected Measures of Liquidity and Capital Resources—Contractual Obligations” section of this Financial Review . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 15 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Contingencies 
 
 We and certain of our subsidiaries are subject to numerous contingencies arising in the ordinary course of business, such as patent litigation, product liability and other product-related litigation, commercial litigation, environmental claims and proceedings, government investigations, and guarantees and indemnifications, as well as for tax matters. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 1P. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies: Tax Assets and Liabilities and Income Tax Contingencies, Note 1R. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies: Legal and Environmental Contingencies, Note 5D. Tax Matters : Tax Contingencies and Note 16. Contingencies and Certain Commitments . 
 
 ANALYSIS OF THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following table provides the components of the consolidated statements of income: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2019 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 19/18 
 
 
 
 18/17 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 51,750 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 53,647 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 52,546 
 
 
 
 
 
 (4 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of sales (a) 
 
 
 
 10,219 
 
 
 
 
 
 11,248 
 
 
 
 
 
 11,228 
 
 
 
 
 
 (9 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 % of revenues 
 
 
 
 19.7 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 21.0 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 21.4 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses (a) 
 
 
 
 14,350 
 
 
 
 
 
 14,455 
 
 
 
 
 
 14,804 
 
 
 
 
 
 (1 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (2 
 
 ) 
 
 
 % of revenues 
 
 
 
 27.7 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 26.9 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 28.2 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Research and development expenses (a) 
 
 
 
 8,650 
 
 
 
 
 
 8,006 
 
 
 
 
 
 7,683 
 
 
 
 
 
 8 
 
 
 
 
 
 4 
 
 
 
 
 % of revenues 
 
 
 
 16.7 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 14.9 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 14.6 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization of intangible assets 
 
 
 
 4,610 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,893 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,758 
 
 
 
 
 
 (6 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 3 
 
 
 
 
 % of revenues 
 
 
 
 8.9 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 9.1 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 9.1 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 
 
 
 
 747 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,044 
 
 
 
 
 
 351 
 
 
 
 
 
 (28 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 % of revenues 
 
 
 
 1.4 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 1.9 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 0.7 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (Gain) on completion of Consumer Healthcare JV transaction 
 
 
 
 (8,086 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 % of revenues 
 
 
 
 15.6 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Other (income)/deductions—net 
 
 
 
 3,578 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,116 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,416 
 
 
 
 
 
 69 
 
 
 
 
 
 49 
 
 
 
 
 Income from continuing operations before provision/(benefit) for taxes on income 
 
 
 
 17,682 
 
 
 
 
 
 11,885 
 
 
 
 
 
 12,305 
 
 
 
 
 
 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 (3 
 
 ) 
 
 
 % of revenues 
 
 
 
 34.2 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 22.2 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 23.4 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Provision/(benefit) for taxes on income 
 
 
 
 1,384 
 
 
 
 
 
 706 
 
 
 
 
 
 (9,049 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 96 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 Effective tax rate 
 
 
 
 7.8 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 5.9 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 (73.5 
 
 )% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Income from continuing operations 
 
 
 
 16,298 
 
 
 
 
 
 11,179 
 
 
 
 
 
 21,353 
 
 
 
 
 
 46 
 
 
 
 
 
 (48 
 
 ) 
 
 
 % of revenues 
 
 
 
 31.5 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 20.8 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 40.6 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Discontinued operations—net of tax 
 
 
 
 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 10 
 
 
 
 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 (61 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 Net income before allocation to noncontrolling interests 
 
 
 
 16,302 
 
 
 
 
 
 11,188 
 
 
 
 
 
 21,355 
 
 
 
 
 
 46 
 
 
 
 
 
 (48 
 
 ) 
 
 
 % of revenues 
 
 
 
 31.5 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 20.9 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 40.6 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 
 
 
 
 29 
 
 
 
 
 
 36 
 
 
 
 
 
 47 
 
 
 
 
 
 (18 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (24 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Net income attributable to Pfizer Inc. 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 16,273 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 11,153 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 21,308 
 
 
 
 
 
 46 
 
 
 
 
 
 (48 
 
 ) 
 
 
 % of revenues 
 
 
 
 31.4 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 20.8 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 40.6 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 Indicates calculation not meaningful or result is equal to or greater than 100%. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 Excludes amortization of intangible assets, except as disclosed in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 10 A . Identifiable Intangible Assets and Goodwill : Identifiable Intangible Assets . 
 
 Revenues — Overview 
 Total revenues in 2019 compared to 2018 reflects an operational decline of $545 million , or 1% , and an unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of $1.4 billion , or 3% in 2019 compared to 2018 . 
 Total revenues in 2018 compared to 2017 reflects an operational increase of $791 million , or 2% , and the favorable impact of foreign exchange of $310 million , or less than 1% , in 2018 compared to 2017 . 
 See the “Revenues by Segment and Geography” and “Revenues—Selected Product Discussion” sections of this Financial Review for additional analyses. 
 Certain of our current products have experienced patent-based expirations or loss of regulatory exclusivity in certain markets in the last few years, and we expect certain products to face significantly increased generic competition over the next few years. For additional information, see the “Patents and Other Intellectual Property Rights” section in Part I, ITEM 1, “Business” of our 2019 Form 10-K. 
 We have significant operations outside the U.S., with revenues exceeding $500 million in eleven countries in each of 2019, 2018 and 2017. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 16 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 By total revenues, the U.S., China and Japan are our three largest national markets: 
 
 Inventory Stocking 
 
 Our policy relating to the supply of pharmaceutical inventory at domestic wholesalers, and in major international markets, is to generally maintain stocking levels under one month on average and to keep monthly levels consistent from year to year based on patterns of utilization. We historically have been able to closely monitor these customer stocking levels by purchasing information from our customers directly or by obtaining other third-party information. We believe our data sources to be directionally reliable but cannot verify their accuracy. Further, as we do not control this third-party data, we cannot be assured of continuing access. Unusual buying patterns and utilization are promptly investigated. 
 
 Revenue Deductions 
 
 Our gross product revenues are subject to a variety of deductions, which generally are estimated and recorded in the same period that the revenues are recognized. Such variable consideration represents chargebacks, rebates, sales allowances and sales returns. These deductions represent estimates of related obligations and, as such, knowledge and judgment are required when estimating the impact of these revenue deductions on gross sales for a reporting period. Historically, our adjustments of estimates, to reflect actual results or updated expectations, have not been material to our overall business. On a quarterly basis, our adjustments of estimates to reflect actual results generally have been less than 1% of revenues, and have resulted in either a net increase or a net decrease in revenues. Product-specific rebates, however, can have a significant impact on year-over-year individual product growth trends. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following table provides information about revenue deductions: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 Medicare rebates (a) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,306 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,706 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,316 
 
 
 
 
 Medicaid and related state program rebates (a) 
 
 
 
 1,936 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,969 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,860 
 
 
 
 
 Performance-based contract rebates (a), (b) 
 
 
 
 3,767 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,377 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,245 
 
 
 
 
 Chargebacks (c) 
 
 
 
 5,588 
 
 
 
 
 
 6,461 
 
 
 
 
 
 6,047 
 
 
 
 
 Sales allowances (d) 
 
 
 
 5,678 
 
 
 
 
 
 5,592 
 
 
 
 
 
 5,165 
 
 
 
 
 Sales returns and cash discounts 
 
 
 
 1,315 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,522 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,493 
 
 
 
 
 Total (e) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 19,589 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 20,627 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 19,126 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 Rebates are product-specific and, therefore, for any given year are impacted by the mix of products sold. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 Performance-based contract rebates include contract rebates with MCOs within the U.S., including health maintenance organizations and PBMs, who receive rebates based on the achievement of contracted performance terms and claims under these contracts. Outside the U.S., performance-based contract rebates include rebates to wholesalers/distributors based on achievement of contracted performance for specific products or sales milestones. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 Chargebacks primarily represent reimbursements to U.S. wholesalers for honoring contracted prices to third parties. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) 
 
 Sales allowances primarily represent price reductions that are contractual or legislatively mandated outside the U.S., discounts and distribution fees. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (e) 
 
 For 2019 , associated with the following segments: Biopharma ( $12.0 billion ), Upjohn ( $7.2 billion ) and Other ( $0.4 billion ). For 2018 , associated with the following segments: Biopharma ( $10.2 billion ), Upjohn ( $9.7 billion ) and Other ( $0.7 billion ). For 2017 , associated with the following segments: Biopharma ( $9.2 billion ), Upjohn ( $9.2 billion ) and Other ( $0.7 billion ). 
 Total revenue deductions for 2019 decrease d 5% compared to 2018 , primarily as a result of: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 a decrease in chargebacks primarily related to Upjohn products, including Viagra and Lyrica; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 a decrease in Medicare rebates, driven by a significant decrease in Lyrica sales in the U.S. due to multi-source generic competition that began in July 2019, 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 an increase in performance-based contract rebates, primarily in the U.S. due to increased sales of certain Biopharma products, slightly offset by decreased Lyrica sales. 
 For information on our accruals for Medicare rebates, Medicaid and related state program rebates, performance-based contract rebates, chargebacks, sales allowances and sales returns and cash discounts, including the balance sheet classification of these accruals, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 1G. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies: Revenues and Trade Accounts Receivable . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 17 
 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Revenues by Operating Segment and Geography 
 
 The following graphs show revenues by operating segment and geography: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Revenues by Geography 
 
 
 
 % of Total 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 46% 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 
 54% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Revenues by Geography 
 
 
 
 % of Total 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 47% 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 
 53% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Revenues by Geography 
 
 
 
 % of Total 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 50% 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 
 50% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 18 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following table provides worldwide revenues by operating segment and geography: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Worldwide 
 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 
 Worldwide 
 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 19/18 
 
 
 
 
 
 18/17 
 
 
 
 
 
 19/18 
 
 
 
 
 
 18/17 
 
 
 
 
 
 19/18 
 
 
 
 
 
 18/17 
 
 
 Operating Segments (a) : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Biopharma 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 39,419 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 37,558 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 35,530 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 19,605 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 18,243 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 17,961 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 19,814 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 19,315 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 17,569 
 
 
 
 
 
 5 
 
 
 
 
 
 6 
 
 
 
 
 
 7 
 
 
 
 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 3 
 
 
 
 
 
 10 
 
 
 Upjohn 
 
 
 
 10,233 
 
 
 
 
 
 12,484 
 
 
 
 
 
 13,447 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,259 
 
 
 
 
 
 5,209 
 
 
 
 
 
 6,150 
 
 
 
 
 
 6,974 
 
 
 
 
 
 7,275 
 
 
 
 
 
 7,297 
 
 
 
 
 
 (18 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (7 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (37 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (15 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (4 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 Consumer Healthcare 
 
 
 
 2,098 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,605 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,472 
 
 
 
 
 
 988 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,877 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,851 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,110 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,728 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,621 
 
 
 
 
 
 (42 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 (47 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 (36 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 7 
 
 
 Other (b) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 97 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 64 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 33 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 Total revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 51,750 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 53,647 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 52,546 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 23,852 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 25,329 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 26,026 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 27,898 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 28,318 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 26,519 
 
 
 
 
 
 (4 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 (6 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (3 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (1 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 7 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 Indicates the calculation is not meaningful or results are equal to or greater than 100%. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 For additional information about each operating segment, see the “Commercial Operations” section in Part I, ITEM 1, “Business” of our 2019 Form 10-K, the “Analysis of Operating Segment Information” section of this Financial Review and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 17A. Segment, Geographic and Other Revenue Information: Segment Information. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 Represents HIS revenues through February 2, 2017. On February 3, 2017, we completed the sale of HIS to ICU Medical. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 1A . Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies : Basis of Presentation . 
 
 We recorded direct product and/or alliance revenues of more than $1 billion for each of: eight products in 2019 , ten products in 2018 and nine products in 2017 . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Direct Product And/Or Alliance Revenues of More Than $1 Billion 
 
 
 2019 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13 
 
 
 
 Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13 
 
 
 
 Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13 
 
 
 Ibrance 
 
 
 
 Lyrica 
 
 
 
 Lyrica 
 
 
 Eliquis* 
 
 
 
 Ibrance 
 
 
 
 Ibrance 
 
 
 Lyrica 
 
 
 
 Eliquis* 
 
 
 
 Eliquis* 
 
 
 Xeljanz 
 
 
 
 Enbrel 
 
 
 
 Enbrel 
 
 
 Lipitor 
 
 
 
 Lipitor 
 
 
 
 Lipitor 
 
 
 Enbrel 
 
 
 
 Xeljanz 
 
 
 
 Xeljanz 
 
 
 Chantix/Champix 
 
 
 
 Chantix/Champix 
 
 
 
 Viagra 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sutent 
 
 
 
 Sutent 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Norvasc 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 * Eliquis includes alliance revenues and direct sales in 2019, 2018 and 2017. 
 These direct product sales and/or alliance product revenues represent 49% of our revenues in 2019 , 51% of our revenues in 2018 and 46% of our revenues in 2017 . See the “Analysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income—Revenues—Selected Product Discussion” section of this Financial Review for additional information. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 19 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2019 v. 2018 
 
 The following provides an analysis of the change in worldwide revenues by geographic areas in 2019 : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 Worldwide 
 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 Operational growth/(decline): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Continued growth from certain key brands (a) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 2,495 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 914 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,581 
 
 
 
 
 Higher revenue from continued growth of anti-infective products in China, driven by increased demand for Sulperazon and new launches, the 2018 U.S. launches of our immune globulin intravenous products (Panzyga and Octagam) and the launches of certain anti-infectives products (Zavicefta, Zinforo and Cresemba) in international developed and emerging markets, all in the Hospital products business 
 
 
 
 472 
 
 
 
 
 
 174 
 
 
 
 
 
 298 
 
 
 
 
 Higher revenues for Inlyta, primarily in the U.S. driven by increased demand resulting from the second quarter of 2019 U.S. FDA approvals for the combinations of certain immune checkpoint inhibitors plus Inlyta for the first-line treatment of patients with advanced RCC 
 
 
 
 190 
 
 
 
 
 
 175 
 
 
 
 
 
 14 
 
 
 
 
 Higher revenues for Biosimilars, primarily in the U.S. 
 
 
 
 168 
 
 
 
 
 
 185 
 
 
 
 
 
 (17 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Higher revenues for rare disease products driven by the U.S. launches in May 2019 of Vyndaqel and in September 2019 of Vyndamax, for the treatment of transthyretin amyloid cardiomyopathy (ATTR-CM); and in international markets, primarily driven by continued uptake for the transthyretin amyloid polyneuropathy indication, primarily in developed Europe, as well as the March 2019 launch of the ATTR-CM indication in Japan, partially offset by lower revenues for certain rare disease products, including the hemophilia franchises (Refacto AF/Xyntha and BeneFIX), primarily due to competitive pressures, and Genotropin in developed markets, mainly due to unfavorable channel mix in the U.S. 
 
 
 
 159 
 
 
 
 
 
 108 
 
 
 
 
 
 51 
 
 
 
 
 Volume-driven growth from Celebrex and Effexor, primarily in Japan and China 
 
 
 
 78 
 
 
 
 
 
 (8 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 87 
 
 
 
 
 Lower worldwide revenues for Lyrica, primarily in the U.S., reflecting the expected significantly lower volumes associated with multi-source generic competition that began in July 2019 
 
 
 
 (1,628 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (1,582 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (46 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Lower revenues for Consumer Healthcare reflecting the July 31, 2019 completion of the Consumer Healthcare joint venture transaction with GSK. As a result, 2019 revenues reflect seven months of Consumer Healthcare segment domestic operations and eight months of Consumer Healthcare segment international operations 
 
 
 
 (1,436 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (889 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (547 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Lower revenues from other Hospital products, primarily reflecting declines in developed markets, mostly due to the continued expected negative impact from generic competition for products that have previously lost marketing exclusivity 
 
 
 
 (447 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (200 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (247 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Lower revenues for Enbrel internationally, reflecting continued biosimilar competition in most developed Europe markets 
 
 
 
 (292 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (292 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Lower revenues for Viagra and Upjohn's authorized generic for Viagra in the U.S. resulting from increased generic competition following Viagra's December 2017 patent expiration, partially offset by increased retail demand growth in China 
 
 
 
 (171 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (193 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 21 
 
 
 
 
 Decline in revenues for Revatio driven by lower U.S. Oral Suspension formulation sales and pricing pressures due to a recent generic entry, and for Relpax, driven by continued generic competition across developed markets 
 
 
 
 (149 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (110 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (39 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Decline in Norvasc and Lipitor due to pricing pressures from the implementation of the VBP in certain cities in China and lower volumes in Japan, partially offset by overall increased demand in China in the first quarter of 2019 and continued geographic expansion in China during the second half of 2019 in provinces where the VBP had not yet been implemented 
 
 
 
 (40 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (4 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (36 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Other operational factors, net 
 
 
 
 57 
 
 
 
 
 
 (47 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 104 
 
 
 
 
 Operational growth/(decline), net 
 
 
 
 (545 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (1,477 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 932 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Unfavorable impact of foreign exchange 
 
 
 
 (1,352 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (1,352 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Revenues decrease 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (1,897 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (1,477 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (420 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 Certain key brands represent Ibrance, Eliquis, Xeljanz and Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13. See the “Analysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income––Revenues––Selected Product Discussion" section of this Financial Review for product analysis information. 
 Emerging markets revenues increase d $82 million , or 1% , in 2019 to $12.7 billion , reflecting an operational increase of $877 million , or 7% . Foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of approximately 6% on emerging markets revenues. The operational increase in emerging markets was primarily driven by Prevenar 13, Ibrance and Eliquis in our Biopharma segment and Zoloft, Viagra, Celebrex and Lipitor in our Upjohn segment. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 20 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 v. 2017 
 
 The following provides an analysis of the change in worldwide revenues by geographic areas in 2018 : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 Worldwide 
 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 Operational growth/(decline): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Continued growth from certain key brands (a) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 2,715 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,019 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,696 
 
 
 
 
 Growth from Biosimilars, primarily from Inflectra in certain channels in the U.S. and developed Europe markets 
 
 
 
 217 
 
 
 
 
 
 147 
 
 
 
 
 
 69 
 
 
 
 
 Growth from recently launched products, including Eucrisa in the U.S., as well as Besponsa and Bavencio, primarily in the U.S. and developed Europe 
 
 
 
 195 
 
 
 
 
 
 158 
 
 
 
 
 
 37 
 
 
 
 
 Higher revenues for Lipitor and Norvasc primarily due to increased demand in China, partially offset by pricing pressures in China and lower volumes in Japan for Lipitor and Norvasc and the non-recurrence of favorable U.S. rebates for Lipitor that occurred in 2017 
 
 
 
 182 
 
 
 
 
 
 (52 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 234 
 
 
 
 
 Growth in our Consumer Healthcare business across all markets 
 
 
 
 107 
 
 
 
 
 
 26 
 
 
 
 
 
 81 
 
 
 
 
 Lower revenues for Viagra in the U.S. resulting from the loss of exclusivity in December 2017 
 
 
 
 (572 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (572 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Decline in the Hospital products business, driven by lower revenues in developed markets, primarily due to increased competition across the portfolio and continued legacy Hospira product shortages in the U.S., partially offset by an increase in emerging markets, primarily in China 
 
 
 
 (482 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (703 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 221 
 
 
 
 
 Lower revenues for Enbrel, primarily in most developed Europe markets due to continued biosimilar competition 
 
 
 
 (350 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (350 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Decline in Greenstone, Upjohn's solid oral dose generics subsidiary, due to additional generic competition in the U.S. and decline in Relpax, primarily due to loss of exclusivity in the U.S. 
 
 
 
 (318 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (310 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (8 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Lower revenues for the Premarin family of products and Pristiq primarily driven by generic competition in the U.S. 
 
 
 
 (241 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (201 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (40 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Decline in revenues for Lyrica, primarily driven by losses of exclusivity in developed Europe markets and Australia, partially offset by growth in the U.S. and growth in the orally dissolving tablet formulation in Japan 
 
 
 
 (115 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 131 
 
 
 
 
 
 (246 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Lower revenues from the hemophilia portfolio (BeneFIX and Refacto AF/Xyntha), primarily in developed Europe 
 
 
 
 (100 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (13 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (88 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Decline in revenues for Celebrex, primarily driven by the non-recurrence of favorable U.S. rebates that occurred in 2017 and lower volumes in the U.S. 
 
 
 
 (99 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (99 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Impact on financial results from the sale of HIS in February 2017. 2018 does not reflect any contribution from HIS global operations, compared to approximately one month of HIS domestic operations and approximately two months of HIS international operations in the same period in 2017 
 
 
 
 (97 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (64 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (33 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Other operational factors, net 
 
 
 
 (251 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (166 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (84 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Operational growth/(decline), net 
 
 
 
 791 
 
 
 
 
 
 (698 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 1,489 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Favorable impact of foreign exchange 
 
 
 
 310 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 310 
 
 
 
 
 Revenues increase/(decrease) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,101 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (698 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,799 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 Certain k ey brands represent Ibrance, Eliquis, Xeljanz, Prevnar/Prevenar 13, Xtandi and Chantix/Champix. See the “Analysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income––Revenues––Selected Product Discussion" section of this Financial Review for product analysis information. 
 Emerging markets revenues increase d $1.3 billion , or 11% , in 2018 to $12.7 billion , from $11.4 billion in 2017, reflecting an operational increase of $1.5 billion , or 13% . Foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of approximately 2% on emerging markets revenues. The operational increase in emerging markets was primarily driven by Prevenar 13, Sulperazon, Ibrance and Eliquis in our Biopharma segment and Lipitor and Norvasc in our Upjohn segment. 
 For additional information about operating segment revenues, see the “Analysis of Operating Segment Information” section of this Financial Review. 
 
 Revenues—Selected Product Discussion 
 The tables below provide worldwide revenues and revenues by geography, for selected products. References to total change pertain to period-over-period growth rates that include foreign exchange. The difference between the total change and operational change represents the impact of foreign exchange. Amounts may not add due to rounding. All percentages have been calculated using unrounded amounts. An asterisk (*) indicates the calculation is not meaningful or results are equal to or greater than 100%. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 21 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13 (Biopharma): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oper. 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 3,209 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 3,360 
 
 
 
 
 
 (4 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 
 2,638 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,443 
 
 
 
 
 
 8 
 
 
 
 
 
 12 
 
 
 Worldwide revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 5,847 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 5,802 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 3 
 The decline in 2019 in the U.S. primarily reflects the continued decline in revenues for the adult indication due to a high initial capture rate of the eligible population following its successful fourth-quarter 2014 launch, which resulted in a smaller remaining “catch up” opportunity (i.e., the opportunity to reach adults aged 65 years and older who have not been previously vaccinated with Prevnar 13) as well as lower government purchases for the pediatric indication. 
 The operational growth in 2019 internationally was primarily driven by the pediatric indication due to higher volumes reflecting continued uptake in China, favorable impact of timing and increased volumes associated with government purchases for the pediatric indication in certain emerging markets and higher volumes resulting from increased shipments associated with Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance. 
 In 2014, the ACIP voted to recommend Prevnar 13 for routine use to help protect adults aged 65 years and older against pneumococcal disease, which for adults includes pneumonia caused by the 13 pneumococcal serotypes included in the vaccine. These ACIP recommendations were subsequently approved by the directors at the CDC and U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, and were published in the Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report in September 2014 by the CDC. The CDC regularly monitors the impact of vaccination and reviews the recommendations. During the February 2019 ACIP meeting, the CDC presented a formal evaluation of evidence to the recommendation framework (grading) for ACIP’s input. On June 26, 2019, the ACIP voted to revise the pneumococcal vaccination guidelines and recommend Prevnar 13 for adults 65 and older based on the shared clinical decision making of the provider and patient, which means the decision to vaccinate should be made at the individual level between health care providers and their patients, maintaining reimbursement. The recommendation reaffirms that there remains vaccine preventable pneumococcal disease in the population of adults 65 years or older, which may be prevented through direct vaccination. The ACIP’s recommendation was approved by the directors at the CDC and U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, and published by the CDC in the Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report in the fourth quarter of 2019. While the ACIP’s latest recommendation did not have an impact on Prevnar 13 revenues in 2019, due to timing of the Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report publication, we expect Prevnar 13 revenues from the adult indication to continue to decline in 2020 and beyond. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Ibrance (Biopharma): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 Oper. 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 3,250 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 2,922 
 
 
 
 
 
 11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 
 1,710 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,196 
 
 
 
 
 
 43 
 
 
 
 53 
 
 
 Worldwide revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 4,961 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 4,118 
 
 
 
 
 
 20 
 
 
 
 23 
 The operational growth in 2019 in international markets reflects the continued strong uptake in developed Europe and Japan as well as in certain emerging markets following launches, partially offset by pricing pressure primarily in certain developed Europe markets beginning in the fourth quarter of 2019. The growth in 2019 in the U.S. was mainly driven by cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) class share growth and Ibrance’s continued CDK class share leadership in its approved metastatic breast cancer indications. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Eliquis alliance revenues and direct sales (Biopharma): Eliquis has been jointly developed and is commercialized by Pfizer and BMS. Pfizer funds between 50% and 60% of all development costs depending on the study. Profits and losses are shared equally on a global basis, except in certain countries where Pfizer commercializes Eliquis and pays BMS compensation based on a percentage of net sales. We have full commercialization rights in certain smaller markets. BMS supplies the product to us at cost plus a percentage of the net sales to end-customers in these markets. Eliquis is part of the Novel Oral Anticoagulant market; the agents in this class were developed as alternative treatment options to warfarin in appropriate patients. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 Oper. 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 2,343 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,849 
 
 
 
 
 
 27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 
 1,877 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,585 
 
 
 
 
 
 18 
 
 
 
 24 
 
 
 Worldwide revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 4,220 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 3,434 
 
 
 
 
 
 23 
 
 
 
 26 
 The worldwide operational growth in 2019 was mostly driven by continued increased adoption in non-valvular atrial fibrillation, as well as oral anti-coagulant market share gains, partially offset by a higher Medicare “coverage gap” discount provision on U.S. revenues compared to the prior year. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 22 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Lyrica (Upjohn): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oper. 
 
 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 2,012 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 3,594 
 
 
 
 
 
 (44 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 
 1,308 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,375 
 
 
 
 
 
 (5 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (3 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Worldwide revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 3,321 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 4,970 
 
 
 
 
 
 (33 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (33 
 
 ) 
 The decline s in 2019 in the U.S. were due to the expected significantly lower volumes driven by multi-source generic competition which began in July 2019. 
 The operational decline internationally in 2019 was primarily due to generic competition in developed Europe markets and pricing pressures across international markets, partially offset by increased volumes in Japan attributable to growth in the orally dissolving tablet formulation, and increased volumes in Russia and China. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Xeljanz (Biopharma): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 Oper. 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,636 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,394 
 
 
 
 
 
 17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 
 606 
 
 
 
 
 
 380 
 
 
 
 
 
 59 
 
 
 
 70 
 
 
 Worldwide revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 2,242 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,774 
 
 
 
 
 
 26 
 
 
 
 29 
 The growth in the U.S. in 2019 was primarily due to continued growth in the RA indication driven by access improvements, and by volume growth from the launches of the UC and PsA indications in 2018, partially offset by higher rebating from new commercial contracts. 
 The operational growth internationally in 2019 was mainly driven by continued uptake in the RA indication in developed Europe, emerging markets, Japan and Canada as well as from the recent launch of the UC indication in certain developed markets. 
 In July and December 2019, the FDA updated the U.S. prescribing information for Xeljanz to include three additional boxed warnings as well as changes to the indication and dosing for UC. In January 2020, the EC revised the summary of product characteristics (SmPC) for Xeljanz to include new warnings and recommendations for use of Xeljanz due to an increased risk of venous thromboembolism, and, due to an increased risk of infections, revised warnings in patients older than 65 years of age. These updates were based on the FDA’s and EMA’s review of 10 mg data from the ongoing post-marketing requirement RA study A3921133. We expect these updates to moderate growth. See the “Analysis of Consolidated Statements of Income—Product Development—Biopharmaceuticals” section of this Financial Review. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Lipitor (Upjohn): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oper. 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 104 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 110 
 
 
 
 
 
 (6 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 
 1,870 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,952 
 
 
 
 
 
 (4 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 Worldwide revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,973 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 2,062 
 
 
 
 
 
 (4 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 The worldwide operational revenue was flat in 2019 mostly due to overall increased demand in China in the first quarter of 2019 and continued geographic expansion during the second half of 2019 in provinces where the VBP program had not yet been implemented, offset by pricing pressures in China resulting from the VBP implementation in certain cities, discontinued sales in Saudi Arabia and lower volumes in Japan. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Enbrel (Biopharma, outside the U.S. and Canada): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oper. 
 
 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 
 1,699 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,112 
 
 
 
 
 
 (20 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (14 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Worldwide revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,699 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 2,112 
 
 
 
 
 
 (20 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (14 
 
 ) 
 The worldwide operational decline in 2019 was primarily due to ongoing biosimilar competition in most developed Europe markets, which is expected to continue. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 23 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Chantix/Champix (Biopharma): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oper. 
 
 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 899 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 838 
 
 
 
 
 
 7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 
 208 
 
 
 
 
 
 247 
 
 
 
 
 
 (16 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (12 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Worldwide revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,107 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,085 
 
 
 
 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 3 
 
 
 The growth in the U.S. in 2019 was primarily due to stronger demand. The operational decline internationally in 2019 was mainly driven by generic entry in South Korea and Canada. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Norvasc (Upjohn): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oper. 
 
 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 39 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 36 
 
 
 
 
 
 6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 
 911 
 
 
 
 
 
 992 
 
 
 
 
 
 (8 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (4 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Worldwide revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 950 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,029 
 
 
 
 
 
 (8 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (4 
 
 ) 
 The worldwide operational decline in 2019 was primarily due to pricing pressures in China resulting from the VBP implementation in certain cities and lower volumes in Japan, partially offset by overall increased demand in China in the first quarter of 2019 and continued geographic expansion during the second half of 2019 in provinces where the VBP had not yet been implemented. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Sutent (Biopharma): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oper. 
 
 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 283 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 357 
 
 
 
 
 
 (21 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 
 653 
 
 
 
 
 
 692 
 
 
 
 
 
 (6 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 1 
 
 
 
 
 Worldwide revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 936 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,049 
 
 
 
 
 
 (11 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (7 
 
 ) 
 The worldwide operational decline in 2019 reflects continued erosion as a result of increased competition in the U.S. and key developed markets, partially offset by growth in certain emerging markets. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Xtandi alliance revenues (Biopharma): Xtandi is being developed and commercialized through a collaboration with Astellas. The two companies share equally in the gross profits (losses) related to U.S. net sales of Xtandi. Subject to certain exceptions, Pfizer and Astellas also share equally all Xtandi commercialization costs attributable to the U.S. market. Pfizer and Astellas also share certain development and other collaboration expenses, and Pfizer receives tiered royalties as a percentage of international Xtandi net sales (recorded in Other (income)/deductions—net ). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 Oper. 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 838 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 699 
 
 
 
 
 
 20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 Worldwide revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 838 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 699 
 
 
 
 
 
 20 
 
 
 
 20 
 The growth in the U.S. in 2019 was primarily driven by increased demand for Xtandi in metastatic (mCRPC) and non-metastatic (nmCRPC) castration-resistant prostate cancer. Revenues continue to be unfavorably impacted by patient assistance programs (PAP) utilization. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The Premarin family of products (Biopharma): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oper. 
 
 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 690 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 783 
 
 
 
 
 
 (12 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 
 44 
 
 
 
 
 
 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 (10 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (6 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Worldwide revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 734 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 832 
 
 
 
 
 
 (12 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (12 
 
 ) 
 The worldwide operational decline in 2019 was primarily driven by continued competitive pressures in the U.S., which is expected to continue. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 24 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Celebrex (Upjohn): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oper. 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 58 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 65 
 
 
 
 
 
 (11 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 
 661 
 
 
 
 
 
 621 
 
 
 
 
 
 7 
 
 
 
 
 
 8 
 
 
 Worldwide revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 719 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 686 
 
 
 
 
 
 5 
 
 
 
 
 
 7 
 The worldwide operational growth in 2019 was mainly due to higher volumes in China, driven by investments in geographic expansion, and higher volumes in Japan, partially offset by pricing pressures in certain emerging markets. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Sulperazon (Biopharma): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 Oper. 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 
 684 
 
 
 
 
 
 613 
 
 
 
 
 
 12 
 
 
 
 17 
 
 
 Worldwide revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 684 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 613 
 
 
 
 
 
 12 
 
 
 
 17 
 The international operational growth in 2019 was mostly due to increased demand in China. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Inflectra/Remsima (Biopharma): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oper. 
 
 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 300 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 259 
 
 
 
 
 
 16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 
 325 
 
 
 
 
 
 383 
 
 
 
 
 
 (15 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (10 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Worldwide revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 625 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 642 
 
 
 
 
 
 (3 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 Worldwide operational revenues were relatively flat in 2019 due to continued volume growth in the U.S., as well as in certain developed markets in Europe and Canada, offset by pricing pressures globally as well as competitive pressures internationally. 
 The growth in the U.S. in 2019 was primarily driven by demand in open systems, partially offset by price erosion. While Inflectra has achieved parity access to Remicade ® (infliximab) in Medicare Part B, nearly half of all commercial patients are not able to access Inflectra due to exclusionary contracting practices by J&J. In September 2017, Pfizer filed suit in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania against J&J alleging that J&J’s exclusionary contracts and other anticompetitive practices concerning Remicade violate federal antitrust laws. In June 2019, Pfizer received a Civil Investigative Demand from the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) seeking documents and information relating to the alleged conduct and market conditions at issue in Pfizer’s lawsuit against J&J. Pfizer understands that the FTC’s investigation is focused on J&J’s alleged conduct at issue in Pfizer’s lawsuit against J&J. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Xalkori (Biopharma): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oper. 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 149 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 158 
 
 
 
 
 
 (5 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 
 381 
 
 
 
 
 
 366 
 
 
 
 
 
 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 9 
 
 
 Worldwide revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 530 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 524 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 5 
 The worldwide operational growth in 2019 primarily resulted from growth in China, following the impact of inclusion of Xalkori in the 2019 National Reimbursement Drug Listing, partially offset by erosion due to competition in developed Europe and in the U.S. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Viagra (Upjohn) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oper. 
 
 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 75 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 217 
 
 
 
 
 
 (65 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 
 422 
 
 
 
 
 
 419 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 5 
 
 
 
 
 Worldwide revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 497 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 636 
 
 
 
 
 
 (22 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (19 
 
 ) 
 The decline in the U.S. in 2019 was driven by the loss of exclusivity in December 2017. The operational growth internationally in 2019 was mostly due to increased retail demand growth in China, partially offset by pricing pressures in China and lower volumes across certain developed and certain emerging markets. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 25 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Inlyta (Biopharma): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 Oper. 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 295 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 119 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 
 182 
 
 
 
 
 
 178 
 
 
 
 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 8 
 
 
 Worldwide revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 477 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 298 
 
 
 
 
 
 60 
 
 
 
 64 
 The worldwide operational growth in 2019 was primarily due to increased demand in the U.S. as a result of the FDA approvals in the second quarter of 2019 for combinations of certain immune checkpoint inhibitors plus Inlyta for the first-line treatment of patients with advanced RCC. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Vyndaqel/Vyndamax (Biopharma): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 Oper. 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 191 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 
 282 
 
 
 
 
 
 148 
 
 
 
 
 
 91 
 
 
 
 96 
 
 
 Worldwide revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 473 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 148 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 * 
 The growth in the U.S. was driven by the launches in May 2019 of Vyndaqel and in September 2019 of Vyndamax, for the treatment of transthyretin amyloid cardiomyopathy (ATTR-CM). The operational growth in international markets was primarily driven by continued uptake for the transthyretin amyloid polyneuropathy indication, primarily in developed Europe, as well as the March 2019 launch of the ATTR-CM indication in Japan. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Eucrisa (Biopharma): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oper. 
 
 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 134 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 147 
 
 
 
 
 
 (9 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 
 3 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 Worldwide revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 138 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 147 
 
 
 
 
 
 (7 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (7 
 
 ) 
 The decline in the U.S. in 2019 was primarily driven by higher rebating and unfavorable channel mix, in addition to favorable rebate adjustments in 2018, partially offset by volume growth. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Alliance revenues (Biopharma): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 Oper. 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 3,208 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 2,576 
 
 
 
 
 
 25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 
 1,440 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,263 
 
 
 
 
 
 14 
 
 
 
 19 
 
 
 Worldwide revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 4,648 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 3,838 
 
 
 
 
 
 21 
 
 
 
 23 
 The worldwide operational growth in 2019 was mainly due to increases in Eliquis and Xtandi alliance revenues included in the above discussion. 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 Bavencio (Biopharma) is being developed and commercialized in collaboration with Merck KGaA. Both companies jointly fund the majority of development and commercialization costs, and split equally any profits related to net sales generated from selling any products containing avelumab from this collaboration. Bavencio is currently approved in metastatic MCC in the U.S., the EU, Japan and select other markets; the second-line treatment of locally advanced or metastatic urothelial carcinoma in the U.S. and select other markets; and first-line treatment of patients with advanced RCC in combination with Inlyta in the U.S., the EU, Japan and select other markets. 
 See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 17C. Segment, Geographic and Other Revenue Information : Other Revenue Information for additional information regarding the primary indications or class of the selected products discussed above. 
 See the “Patents and Other Intellectual Property Rights” section in Part I, ITEM 1, “Business” of our 2019 Form 10-K for information regarding the expiration of various patent rights. 
 
 See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 16. Contingencies and Certain Commitments for a discussion of recent developments concerning patent and product litigation relating to certain of the products discussed above. 
 
 PRODUCT DEVELOPMENTS—BIOPHARMACEUTICAL 
 We continue to invest in R&D to provide potential future sources of revenues through the development of new products, as well as through additional uses for in-line and alliance products. Notwithstanding our efforts, there are no assurances as to when, or if, we will receive regulatory approval for additional indications for existing products or any of our other products in development. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 26 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 We continue to strengthen our global R&D organization and pursue strategies intended to improve innovation and overall productivity in R&D to achieve a sustainable pipeline that will deliver value in the near term and over time. 
 For additional information about our R&D organization, see the “Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook—Our Strategy—Organizing for Growth” and “—Description of Research and Development Operations” sections of this Financial Review. 
 A comprehensive update of Pfizer’s development pipeline was published as of January 28, 2020 and is available at www.pfizer.com/science/drug-product-pipeline. It includes an overview of our research and a list of compounds in development with targeted indication and phase of development, as well as mechanism of action for some candidates in Phase 1 and all candidates from Phase 2 through registration. 
 The following series of tables provides information about significant regulatory actions by, and filings pending with, the FDA and regulatory authorities in the EU and Japan, as well as additional indications and new drug candidates in late-stage development. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 RECENT FDA APPROVALS 
 
 
 PRODUCT 
 
 INDICATION 
 
 DATE APPROVED 
 
 
 Xtandi (enzalutamide) 
 
 Treatment of metastatic castration-sensitive prostate cancer, which is being developed through a collaboration with Astellas 
 
 December 2019 
 
 
 Abrilada (adalimumab-afzb) (a) 
 
 A biosimilar to Humira ® (adalimumab) for the treatment of certain patients with rheumatoid arthritis, juvenile idiopathic arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, adult Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis and plaque psoriasis 
 
 November 2019 
 
 
 Ruxience (rituximab-pvvr) (b) 
 
 A biosimilar to Rituxan ® (rituximab) for the treatment of adult patients with non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and granulomatosis with polyangiitis and microscopic polyangiitis 
 
 July 2019 
 
 
 Zirabev (bevacizumab-bvzr) (c) 
 
 A biosimilar to Avastin ® (bevacizumab) for the treatment of mCRC; unresectable, locally advanced, recurrent or metastatic NSCLC; recurrent glioblastoma; metastatic RCC; and persistent, recurrent or metastatic cervical cancer 
 
 June 2019 
 
 
 Bavencio (avelumab) 
 
 Bavencio (avelumab) in combination with Inlyta (axitinib) for the first-line treatment of patients with advanced RCC, which is being developed in collaboration with Merck KGaA, Germany 
 
 May 2019 
 
 
 Vyndaqel (tafamidis meglumine) 
 
 Treatment of the cardiomyopathy of wild-type or hereditary transthyretin-mediated amyloidosis (ATTR-CM) in adults to reduce cardiovascular mortality and cardiovascular-related hospitalization 
 
 May 2019 
 
 
 Vyndamax (tafamidis) 
 
 Treatment of the cardiomyopathy of wild-type or hereditary ATTR-CM in adults to reduce cardiovascular mortality and cardiovascular-related hospitalization 
 
 May 2019 
 
 
 Trazimera (trastuzumab-qyyp) (d) 
 
 A biosimilar to Herceptin ® (trastuzumab) for all eligible indications of the reference product 
 
 March 2019 
 
 
 Daurismo (glasdegib) 
 
 Treatment of newly-diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia in adult patients who are 75 years or older or who have comorbidities that preclude use of intensive induction chemotherapy 
 
 November 2018 
 
 
 Lorbrena (lorlatinib) 
 
 Treatment of patients with ALK-positive metastatic NSCLC whose disease has progressed on crizotinib and at least one other ALK inhibitor for metastatic disease; or whose disease has progressed on alectinib or ceritinib as the first ALK inhibitor therapy for metastatic disease 
 
 November 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 Humira ® is a registered trademark of AbbVie Biotechnology Ltd. Pfizer is working to make Abrilada available to U.S. patients as soon as feasible based on the terms of its agreement with AbbVie. Current plans are to launch Abrilada in 2023. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 Rituxan ® is a registered trademark of Biogen MA Inc. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 Avastin ® is a registered trademark of Genentech, Inc. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) 
 
 Herceptin ® is a registered trademark of Genentech, Inc. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PENDING U.S. NDAs AND SUPPLEMENTAL FILINGS 
 
 
 PRODUCT 
 
 PROPOSED INDICATION 
 
 DATE FILED* 
 
 
 Braftovi (encorafenib) (a) 
 
 Braftovi (encorafenib) in combination with Erbitux ® (cetuximab) for the treatment of BRAF V600E -mutant metastatic colorectal cancer after prior therapy 
 
 December 2019 
 
 
 PF-06881894 (b) 
 
 A potential biosimilar to Neulasta ® (pegfilgrastim) 
 
 August 2019 
 
 
 Vyndaqel (tafamidis meglumine) (c) 
 
 Treatment of transthyretin familial amyloid polyneuropathy 
 
 February 2012 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 The dates set forth in this column are the dates on which the FDA accepted our submissions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 Erbitux ® is a registered trademark of ImClone LLC. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 Neulasta ® is a registered U.S. trademark of Amgen Inc. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 In May 2012, the FDA’s Peripheral and Central Nervous System Drugs Advisory Committee voted that the tafamidis meglumine data provide substantial evidence of efficacy for a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict a clinical benefit. In June 2012, the FDA issued a “complete response” letter with respect to this tafamidis NDA. The FDA has requested the completion of a second efficacy study, and also has asked for additional information on the data within the current tafamidis NDA. Pfizer has completed study B3461028, a global Phase 3 study to support the new indication of transthyretin amyloid cardiomyopathy, which includes patients with wild type and variant transthyretin. We are working with the FDA to identify next steps. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 27 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 REGULATORY APPROVALS AND FILINGS IN THE EU AND JAPAN 
 
 
 PRODUCT 
 
 DESCRIPTION OF EVENT 
 
 DATE APPROVED 
 
 DATE FILED* 
 
 
 Vyndaqel (tafamidis free acid) 
 
 Application approved in the EU for a once-daily 61 mg oral capsule, for the treatment of wild-type or hereditary transthyretin amyloidosis in adult patients with cardiomyopathy 
 
 February 2020 
 
 — 
 
 
 Amsparity (adalimumab) (a) 
 
 Application approved in the EU for a biosimilar to Humira ® (adalimumab) for the treatment of certain patients with rheumatoid arthritis, juvenile idiopathic arthritis, axial spondyloarthritis, psoriatic arthritis, psoriasis, hidradenitis suppurativa, Crohn’s disease, ulcerative colitis, uveitis, and pediatric plaque psoriasis 
 
 February 2020 
 
 — 
 
 
 Xeljanz (tofacitinib) 
 
 Application approved in the EU for Xeljanz (tofacitinib) 11 mg prolonged release tablets in combination with methotrexate for the treatment of moderate to severe active rheumatoid arthritis in adult patients who have responded inadequately to, or who are intolerant to one or more disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs 
 
 December 2019 
 
 — 
 
 
 Bavencio (avelumab) 
 
 Application approved in Japan for Bavencio (avelumab) in combination with Inlyta (axitinib) for the first-line treatment of advanced RCC, which is being developed in collaboration with Merck KGaA, Germany 
 
 December 2019 
 
 — 
 
 
 Braftovi (encorafenib) and Mektovi (binimetinib) 
 
 Application filed in the EU for second-or-third-line treatment of BRAF- mutant mCRC in patients who have received prior systemic therapy, which is being developed in collaboration with the Pierre Fabre Group 
 
 — 
 
 November 2019 
 
 
 Bavencio (avelumab) 
 
 Application approved in the EU for Bavencio (avelumab) in combination with Inlyta (axitinib) for the first-line treatment of advanced RCC, which is being developed in collaboration with Merck KGaA, Germany 
 
 October 2019 
 
 — 
 
 
 PF-06881894 (b) 
 
 Application filed in the EU for a potential biosimilar to Neulasta® (pegfilgrastim) 
 
 — 
 
 October 2019 
 
 
 Rituximab Pfizer (rituximab) (c) 
 
 Application approved in Japan for a biosimilar to Rituxan ® (rituximab) for the treatment of CD20-positive, B-cell non-Hodgkin’s Lymphoma, CD20-positive, B-cell lymphoproliferative disease under immunosuppression, and Granulomatosis with polyangiitis, and microscopic polyangiitis 
 
 September 2019 
 
 — 
 
 
 Bosulif (bosutinib) 
 
 Application filed in Japan for the treatment of chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML), which is being developed in collaboration with Avillion LLP 
 
 — 
 
 July 2019 
 
 
 Xtandi (enzalutamide) 
 
 Application filed in the EU for the treatment of metastatic hormone-sensitive prostate cancer, which is being developed through a collaboration with Astellas 
 
 — 
 
 July 2019 
 
 
 Talzenna (talazoparib) 
 
 Application approved in the EU for monotherapy for the treatment of adult patients with germline breast cancer susceptibility gene (g BRCA )1/2-mutations, who have HER2- locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer 
 
 June 2019 
 
 — 
 
 
 Bevacizumab Pfizer (bevacizumab) (d) 
 
 Application approved in Japan for a biosimilar to Avastin ® (bevacizumab) for the treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer 
 
 June 2019 
 
 — 
 
 
 Daurismo (glasdegib) 
 
 Application filed in the EU for treatment of newly-diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia in adult patients who are 75 years or older or who have co-morbidities that preclude use of intensive induction chemotherapy 
 
 — 
 
 May 2019 
 
 
 Lorviqua (lorlatinib) 
 
 Application approved in the EU as monotherapy, for the treatment of adult patients with ALK- positive advanced non-small cell lung cancer whose disease has progressed after: 
 
 • alectinib or ceritinib as the first ALK tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) therapy; or 
 
 • crizotinib and at least one other ALK TKI 
 
 May 2019 
 
 — 
 
 
 Vizimpro (dacomitinib) 
 
 Application approved in the EU as monotherapy for the first-line treatment of adult patients with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer with EGFR activating mutations, which is being developed in collaboration with SFJ 
 
 April 2019 
 
 — 
 
 
 Vyndaqel (tafamidis meglumine) 
 
 Application approved in Japan for treatment of transthyretin amyloid cardiomyopathy 
 
 March 2019 
 
 — 
 
 
 Zirabev (d) 
 
 Application approved in the EU for a biosimilar to Avastin ® (bevacizumab) for the treatment of metastatic carcinoma of the colon or rectum, metastatic breast cancer, unresectable advanced, metastatic or recurrent NSCLC, advanced and/or metastatic renal cell cancer and persistent, recurrent, or metastatic carcinoma of the cervix 
 
 February 2019 
 
 — 
 
 
 Vizimpro (dacomitinib) 
 
 Application approved in Japan for the treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer with EGFR mutations, which is being developed in collaboration with SFJ 
 
 January 2019 
 
 — 
 
 
 PF-05280586 (e) 
 
 Application filed in the EU for a potential biosimilar to MabThera ® (rituximab) 
 
 — 
 
 August 2018 
 
 
 crisaborole (f) 
 
 Application filed in the EU for the treatment of mild to moderate atopic dermatitis in adults and pediatric patients from 2 years of age with ≤ 40% body surface area (BSA) affected 
 
 — 
 
 May 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 For applications in the EU, the dates set forth in this column are the dates on which the EMA validated our submissions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 Humira ® is a registered trademark of AbbVie Biotechnology Ltd. Pfizer does not currently plan to commercialize Amsparity in the EU due to unfavorable market conditions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 Neulasta ® is a registered trademark of Amgen Inc. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 Rituxan ® is a registered trademark of Biogen MA Inc. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) 
 
 Avastin ® is a registered trademark of Genentech, Inc. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (e) 
 
 MabThera® is a registered trademark of Roche, Inc. In January 2020, the EMA’s CHMP adopted a positive opinion recommending the approval of PF-05280586 as a potential biosimilar to MabThera® (rituximab) for the treatment of non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, RA, granulomatosis with polyangiitis and microscopic polyangiitis, and pemphigus vulgaris. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (f) 
 
 In January 2020, the EMA’s CHMP adopted a positive opinion recommending the approval of Staquis (crisaborole) for the treatment of mild to moderate atopic dermatitis in adults and pediatric patients from 2 years of age with ≤ 40% BSA affected. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 28 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 LATE-STAGE CLINICAL PROGRAMS FOR ADDITIONAL USES AND DOSAGE FORMS FOR IN-LINE AND IN-REGISTRATION PRODUCTS 
 
 
 PRODUCT 
 
 PROPOSED INDICATION 
 
 
 Bavencio (avelumab) 
 
 A monoclonal antibody that inhibits PD-L1 for the first-line treatment of stage IIIb/IV non-small cell lung cancer, which is being developed in collaboration with Merck KGaA, Germany 
 
 
 Bavencio (avelumab) 
 
 A monoclonal antibody that inhibits PD-L1 for maintenance treatment, in the first-line setting, for patients with urothelial cancer, which is being developed in collaboration with Merck KGaA, Germany 
 
 
 Bavencio (avelumab) 
 
 A monoclonal antibody that inhibits PD-L1 for treatment of locally advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck, which is being developed in collaboration with Merck KGaA, Germany 
 
 
 Daurismo (glasdegib) 
 
 A smoothened inhibitor, in combination with azacitidine, for the treatment of acute myeloid leukemia 
 
 
 Ibrance (palbociclib) 
 
 Treatment of HER2+ advanced breast cancer, in collaboration with the Alliance Foundation Trials, LLC 
 
 
 Ibrance (palbociclib) 
 
 Treatment of high-risk early breast cancer, in collaboration with the German Breast Group 
 
 
 Ibrance (palbociclib) 
 
 Treatment of HR+ early breast cancer, in collaboration with the Alliance Foundation Trials, LLC, and the Austrian Breast Colorectal Cancer Study Group 
 
 
 Lorbrena (lorlatinib) 
 
 Treatment of patients with metastatic non-small cell lung cancer whose tumors are ALK-positive as detected by an FDA-approved test 
 
 
 Xeljanz (tofacitinib) 
 
 Treatment of ankylosing spondylitis 
 
 
 Xtandi (enzalutamide) 
 
 Treatment of non-metastatic hormone-sensitive prostate cancer, which is being developed through a collaboration with Astellas 
 
 
 Talzenna (talazoparib) 
 
 An oral PARP inhibitor, in combination with Xtandi (enzalutamide), for the treatment of metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer 
 In November 2019, we and our partner Merck KGaA, Germany, announced the topline results of the Phase III JAVELIN Gastric 100 study evaluating avelumab as first-line maintenance therapy following induction chemotherapy in patients with unresectable, locally advanced or metastatic HER2-negative gastric or gastroesophageal junction cancer versus continuation of chemotherapy or best supportive care. While the study showed clinical activity for avelumab in this setting, it did not meet the primary endpoints of superior overall survival compared with the standard of care in the overall intent-to-treat population. No new safety signals were observed, and the safety profile for avelumab in this trial was consistent with that observed in the overall JAVELIN clinical development program. 
 In February 2019, the company took steps to transition rheumatoid arthritis study patients who were on tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily to tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily in the ongoing FDA post-marketing requirement study A3921133, a study performed in patients considered to be at high risk for certain side effects. This action was taken as the result of notification from the tofacitinib Rheumatology Data Safety Monitoring Board of a safety signal regarding the tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily treatment arm in study A3921133. The 5 mg twice daily dose is the FDA approved dose in the U.S. for adult patients with moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis. In July 2019, the FDA updated the U.S. prescribing information for Xeljanz to include two additional boxed warnings as well as changes to the indication and dosing for UC. These updates were based on the FDA’s review of data from the ongoing post-marketing requirement RA study A3921133. In January 2020, the EC revised the summary of product characteristics (SmPC) for Xeljanz to include new warnings and recommendations for use of Xeljanz due to an increased risk of venous thromboembolism and, due to an increased risk of infections, revised warnings in patients older than 65 years of age. These updates were based on the FDA’s and EMA’s review of data from the ongoing post-marketing requirement rheumatoid arthritis study A3921133. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 NEW DRUG CANDIDATES IN LATE-STAGE DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 CANDIDATE 
 
 PROPOSED INDICATION 
 
 
 aztreonam-avibactam (PF-06947387) 
 
 A beta lactam/beta lactamase inhibitor for the treatment of patients with infections caused by Gram-negative bacteria, including those that produce metallo-beta-lactamases, for which there are limited or no treatment options 
 
 
 fidanacogene elaparvovec (PF-06838435) 
 
 An investigational gene therapy for the treatment of hemophilia B 
 
 
 PF-06482077 
 
 A 20-Valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine for the prevention of invasive pneumococcal disease and pneumonia caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae serotypes covered by the vaccine in adults 18 years of age and older 
 
 
 PF-06651600 
 
 A selective dual Janus kinase 3 (JAK3) and Tyrosine kinase Expressed in hepatocellular Carcinoma (TEC) family inhibitor for the treatment of patients with moderate to severe alopecia areata 
 
 
 abrocitinib (PF-04965842) 
 
 A Janus kinase 1 (JAK1) inhibitor for the treatment of moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis 
 
 
 PF-06425090 
 
 A prophylactic vaccine for prevention of primary clostridioides difficile infection (CDI) in individuals 
 
 
 PF-07265803 
 
 An oral inhibitor of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase for the treatment of patients with symptomatic dilated cardiomyopathy due to a Lamin A/C gene mutation 
 
 
 PF-06801591 
 
 
 A monoclonal antibody that inhibits PD-1, in combination with Bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG), for the treatment of non-muscle invasive bladder cancer 
 
 
 somatrogon (PF-06836922) 
 
 A long-acting hGH-CTP for the treatment of growth hormone deficiency in children, which is being developed in collaboration with OPKO 
 
 
 somatrogon (PF-06836922) 
 
 A long-acting hGH-CTP for the treatment of growth hormone deficiency in adults, which is being developed in collaboration with OPKO 
 
 
 tanezumab 
 
 An anti-nerve growth factor monoclonal antibody for the treatment of pain, which is being developed in collaboration with Lilly 
 In August 2019, we announced that the Phase 3 Rivipansel (GMI-1070): Evaluating Safety, Efficacy and Time to Discharge (RESET) pivotal study did not meet its primary or key secondary efficacy endpoints. The objective of the trial was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of rivipansel in patients aged six and older with sickle cell disease (SCD) who were hospitalized for a vaso-occlusive crisis (VOC) and required treatment with IV opioids. We plan to share the study data in a publication or scientific meeting presentation in the near future, as we want to ensure the learnings from this trial help inform future sickle cell programs that aim to improve care for SCD disease patients experiencing a 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 29 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 VOC. In February 2020, we notified GlycoMimetics, Inc. that we were discontinuing further development of rivipansel and will transfer the program back to them. 
 Additional product-related programs are in various stages of discovery and development. 
 
 COSTS AND EXPENSES 
 The changes in expenses below reflect, among other things, a decline in expenses resulting from the July 31, 2019 completion of the Consumer Healthcare JV transaction with GSK. Our financial results, and our Consumer Healthcare segment’s operating results, for 2019 reflect seven months of Consumer Healthcare segment domestic operations and eight months of Consumer Healthcare segment international operations. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 1A. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies : Basis of Presentation. 
 Cost of Sales 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 19/18 
 
 
 
 
 
 18/17 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 10,219 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 11,248 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 11,228 
 
 
 
 
 
 (9 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 As a percentage of Revenues 
 
 
 
 19.7 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 21.0 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 21.4 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2019 v. 2018 
 Cost of sales decreased $1.0 billion , or 9% in 2019 , compared to 2018 , primarily due to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the favorable impact of the July 31, 2019 completion of the Consumer Healthcare joint venture transaction with GSK; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the favorable impact of foreign exchange of $279 million ; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the favorable impact of hedging activity on intercompany inventory of $261 million ; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 lower royalty expense for Lyrica due to the patent expiration, 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 an unfavorable change in product mix. 
 The decrease in Cost of sales as a percentage of revenues in 2019 , compared to 2018 , was primarily due to all of the factors discussed above, as well an increase in alliance revenues, which have no associated cost of sales, partially offset by lower Lyrica revenues in developed markets, due to U.S. multi-source generic competition that began in July 2019. 
 2018 v. 2017 
 Cost of sales increased $21 million , or were relatively flat, in 2018 , compared to 2017 , primarily due to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 increased sales volumes mostly related to key products within our product portfolio; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 higher costs across the legacy SIP portfolio, as a result of the complexity of high quality product manufacture across the legacy Hospira plants, which was partially offset by decreases in other costs across various markets; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 an increase in royalty expenses based on the mix of products sold; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the unfavorable impact of hedging activity on intercompany inventory of $65 million, 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 lower volumes from the legacy SIP portfolio, in developed markets, primarily due to increased competition across the legacy SIP portfolio and continued legacy Hospira product shortages in the U.S.; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the non-recurrence of $195 million in inventory losses, overhead costs, and incremental costs related to the period in 2017 during which our Puerto Rico plants were not operational due to hurricanes; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the favorable impact of foreign exchange of $153 million; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the non-recurrence of charges related to a product recall that occurred in 2017; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the favorable impact of the sale of HIS of $35 million. 
 The decrease in Cost of sales as a percentage of revenues in 2018 , compared to 2017 , was mainly due to all of the factors discussed above, as well as an increase in alliance revenues, which have no associated cost of sales. 
 Selling, Informational and Administrative (SI&A) Expenses 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 19/18 
 
 
 
 
 
 18/17 
 
 
 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 14,350 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 14,455 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 14,804 
 
 
 
 
 
 (1 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (2 
 
 ) 
 
 
 As a percentage of Revenues 
 
 
 
 27.7 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 26.9 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 28.2 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2019 v. 2018 
 SI&A expenses decreased $105 million , or 1% , in 2019 , compared to 2018 , mostly due to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the favorable impact of the July 31, 2019 completion of the Consumer Healthcare joint venture with GSK; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 30 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 reduction in field force expense as well as advertising and promotion expenses in developed markets, primarily related to Lyrica in the U.S.; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the favorable impact of foreign exchange of $291 million, 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 additional Biopharma investment in emerging markets; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 separation costs of $127 million associated with our planned Upjohn transaction with Mylan; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 additional investment in the Oncology portfolio in developed markets; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 increased employee deferred compensation as a result of savings plan gains; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 an increase due to the timing of expenses (i.e., insurance recoveries and product donations); 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 marketing and promotional expenses associated with the U.S. launches of Vyndaqel in May 2019 and Vyndamax in September 2019; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 costs to separate Consumer Healthcare; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 increased healthcare reform expenses; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Upjohn investments in China across key brands. 
 2018 v. 2017 
 SI&A expenses decreased $350 million , or 2% , in 2018 , compared to 2017 , mainly due to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 lower advertising, promotional and field force expenses, as well as general and administrative expenses, reflecting the benefits of cost-reduction and productivity initiatives; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the non-recurrence of a $200 million charitable contribution to the Pfizer Foundation; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 decreased investment across several of our key products, primarily Viagra and Enbrel; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 lower healthcare reform expenses as a result of a true up of the prior year amount, 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 additional investment across several of our key products, primarily, Xeljanz, Ibrance, Eucrisa and Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 additional investments in China; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 a special, one-time bonus paid to virtually all Pfizer colleagues, excluding executives, of $119 million , in the aggregate, in the first quarter of 2018. 
 Research and Development (R&D) Expenses 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 19/18 
 
 
 
 18/17 
 
 
 Research and development expenses 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 8,650 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 8,006 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 7,683 
 
 
 
 
 
 8 
 
 
 
 4 
 
 
 As a percentage of Revenues 
 
 
 
 16.7 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 14.9 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 14.6 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2019 v. 2018 
 R&D expenses increased $644 million , or 8% , in 2019 , compared to 2018 , mainly due to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 upfront payments to Therachon and Akcea (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 2. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Equity-Method Investments and Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Arrangements and Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements ); 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 increased investments towards building new capabilities and driving automation; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 increased spending on our Inflammation & Immunology and Rare Disease portfolios due to several Phase 3 programs and 
 investment in gene therapy; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 increased spending related to assets acquired from Array; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 increased medical spend for new and growing products, 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 decreased spending across the Oncology, Vaccines and Internal Medicine portfolios, as select programs have reached completion; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 a decrease in the value of the portfolio performance share grants reflecting changes in the price of Pfizer’s common stock, as well as management’s assessment of the probability that the specified performance criteria will be achieved; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the discontinuation of the Staphylococcus aureus vaccine trial; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the favorable impact of the July 31, 2019 completion of the Consumer Healthcare joint venture with GSK; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the favorable impact of foreign exchange. 
 2018 v. 2017 
 R&D expenses increased $322 million , or 4% , in 2018 , compared to 2017 , mainly due to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 increased costs associated with our Phase 3 clinical trials related to our JAK1 inhibitor (which was initiated in December 2017) and the C. difficile vaccine program (which was initiated in March 2017) as well as increased spending for our 20 valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine candidate; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 increased costs associated with the Bavencio program; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 31 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 an increase in the value of the portfolio performance share grants reflecting changes in the price of Pfizer’s common stock, as well as management’s assessment of the probability that the specified performance criteria will be achieved, 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 decreased spending for biosimilars as several programs have reached completion; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the impact of our decision to end internal neuroscience discovery and early development efforts. 
 For additional information on Cost of sales, SI&A and R&D expenses by operating segment, see the “Analysis of Operating Segment Information” section of this Financial Review. 
 
 Amortization of Intangible Assets 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 19/18 
 
 
 
 
 
 18/17 
 
 
 Amortization of intangible assets 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 4,610 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 4,893 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 4,758 
 
 
 
 
 
 (6 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 3 
 
 
 As a percentage of Revenues 
 
 
 
 8.9 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 9.1 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 9.1 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization of intangible assets decreased $283 million , or 6% , in 2019 , compared to 2018 , mainly due to the non-recurrence of amortization expense as a result of the impairment of sterile injectable products in the fourth quarter of 2018 (recorded in Other (income)/deductions––net ), fully amortized assets and the contribution of our Consumer Healthcare business to the Consumer Healthcare joint venture with GSK, partially offset by an increase in amortization expense related to assets recorded as a result of the approval of Xtandi in the U.S. for the treatment of non-metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer in July of 2018 and amortization of intangible assets as a result of our acquisition of Array. 
 Amortization of intangible assets increased $135 million , or 3% , in 2018 , compared to 2017 , primarily due to amortization expense of approximately $151 million (pre-tax) in 2018 associated with the approval of Xtandi in the U.S. for the treatment of non-metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer. The U.S. approval resulted in the transfer of $2.7 billion from an indefinite-lived IPR&D intangible asset to a finite-lived Developed technology rights intangible asset. 
 
 For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 2A. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Equity-Method Investments and Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Arrangements and Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements : Acquisitions, — Note 2C. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Equity-Method Investments and Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Arrangements and Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements : Equity-Method Investment and Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale and — Note 10A. Identifiable Intangible Assets and Goodwill : Identifiable Intangible Assets . 
 
 Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 19/18 
 
 
 
 
 
 18/17 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges/(credits)––acquisition-related costs (a) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (192 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 105 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 (64 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Restructuring charges/(credits)––cost reduction initiatives (b) 
 
 
 
 565 
 
 
 
 
 
 745 
 
 
 
 
 
 (75 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (24 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges 
 
 
 
 373 
 
 
 
 
 
 782 
 
 
 
 
 
 30 
 
 
 
 
 
 (52 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 Transaction costs (c) 
 
 
 
 63 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 (62 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Integration costs and other (c) 
 
 
 
 311 
 
 
 
 
 
 260 
 
 
 
 
 
 317 
 
 
 
 
 
 20 
 
 
 
 
 
 (18 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 
 
 
 
 747 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,044 
 
 
 
 
 
 351 
 
 
 
 
 
 (28 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 Net periodic benefit costs (c) 
 
 
 
 23 
 
 
 
 
 
 146 
 
 
 
 
 
 136 
 
 
 
 
 
 (84 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 8 
 
 
 
 
 Total additional depreciation––asset restructuring 
 
 
 
 38 
 
 
 
 
 
 50 
 
 
 
 
 
 91 
 
 
 
 
 
 (24 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (45 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Total implementation costs 
 
 
 
 158 
 
 
 
 
 
 194 
 
 
 
 
 
 227 
 
 
 
 
 
 (18 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (15 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives (d) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 967 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,434 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 805 
 
 
 
 
 
 (33 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 Restructuring charges/(credits)––acquisition-related costs include employee termination costs, asset impairments and other exit costs associated with business combinations. Credits for 2019 were mostly due to the reversal of certain accruals related to our acquisition of Wyeth upon the effective favorable settlement of an IRS audit for multiple tax years. See Notes Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 5D. Tax Matters: Tax Contingencies. Charges for 2018 were mainly due to asset write downs, partially offset by the reversal of previously recorded accruals for employee termination costs related to our acquisition of Hospira . Restructuring charges for 2017 mainly related to our acquisitions of Hospira and Medivation and were primarily due to asset write-downs, partially offset by the reversal of previously recorded accruals for employee termination costs. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 Restructuring charges/(credits)––cost reduction initiatives relate to employee termination costs, asset impairments and other exit costs not associated with acquisitions. For 2019, the charges were mostly related to employee termination costs . For 2018, the charges were mostly related to employee termination costs and asset write downs. The employee termination costs for 2019 and 2018 were primarily associated with our improvements to operational effectiveness as part of the realignment of our organizational structure, and for 2019, also includes employee termination costs associated with the Transforming to a More Focused Company initiative. For 2017, the credits were mostly related to the reversal of previously recorded accruals for employee termination costs, partially offset by asset write downs. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 3. Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives . 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) 
 
 Comprises Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs as well as costs associated with our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives included in Cost of sales , Research and development expenses, Selling, informational and administrative expenses and/or Other (income)/deductions––net as appropriate. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 3. Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 32 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 Indicates calculation not meaningful or result is equal to or greater than 100%. 
 2017-2019 Initiatives and Organizing for Growth 
 
 During 2018, we determined that at the start of our 2019 fiscal year, we would begin operating under our new commercial structure, which reorganized our operations into three businesses –– Biopharma, a science-based innovative medicines business; Upjohn, a global, primarily off-patent branded and generic established medicines business; and through July 31, 2019, a Consumer Healthcare business. To operate effectively in this structure and position ourselves for future growth, we focused on creating a simpler, more efficient operating structure within each business as well as the functions that support them. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2018, we reviewed previously planned initiatives and new initiatives to ensure that there was alignment around our new structure and combined the 2017-2019 initiatives with our current Organizing for Growth initiatives to form one cohesive plan. For the combined programs, we achieved savings of approximately $1.6 billion and incurred approximately $2.1 billion in costs over the three-year period 2017-2019. Savings of approximately $500 million were reinvested in our R&D pipeline and in selling and marketing to support our current and recently launched products and indications. 
 
 Transforming to a More Focused Company 
 With the formation of the GSK Consumer Healthcare venture and the pending combination of Upjohn with Mylan, Pfizer is transforming itself into a more focused, global leader in science-based innovative medicines. As a result, we began, in the fourth quarter of 2019, to identify and undertake efforts to ensure our cost base aligns appropriately with our Biopharmaceutical revenue base, which is expected to be 20% less (based on the midpoint of the range for 2020 New Pfizer revenue guidance (see the “Our Financial Guidance for 2020” section of this Financial Review), compared to 2019 total company reported revenue) as a result of both the completed Consumer Healthcare and expected Upjohn transactions. While certain direct costs have transferred or will transfer to the Consumer Healthcare joint venture and to the Upjohn entities, there are indirect costs which are not expected to transfer. In addition, we are taking steps to restructure our organizations to appropriately support and drive the purpose of the three core functions of our focused innovative medicines business: R&D, Manufacturing and Commercial. We expect the costs associated with this multi-year effort to continue through 2022 and to total approximately $1.4 billion on a pre-tax basis and approximately 10% of this to be non-cash. Actions may include, among others, changes in location of certain activities, expanded use and co-location of centers of excellence and shared services, and increased use of digital technologies. The associated actions and the specific costs are currently in development but will include severance and benefit plan impacts, exit costs as well as associated implementation costs. 
 
 We expect net cost savings of about $1.0 billion to be achieved over the three-year period 2020-2022. Certain qualifying costs associated with this program were recorded in the fourth quarter of 2019 and are reflected as Certain Significant Items and excluded from our non-GAAP measure of Adjusted Income. See the “Non-GAAP Financial Measure (Adjusted Income)” section of this Financial Review for additional information. These savings are expected to be realized primarily in procurement and in enabling functions (as described in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 17A. Segment, Geographic and Other Revenue Information : Segment Information ). 
 
 For additional information about this program and expected and actual total costs, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 3. Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives . 
 
 In addition to these major initiatives, we continuously monitor our operations for cost reduction and/or productivity opportunities, especially in light of the losses of exclusivity and the expiration of collaborative arrangements for various products. 
 
 Other (Income)/Deductions––Net 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 19/18 
 
 
 
 18/17 
 
 
 Other (income)/deductions—net 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 3,578 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 2,116 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,416 
 
 
 
 
 
 69 
 
 
 
 49 
 
 For information about the components of Other (income)/deductions—net , see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 4. Other (Income)/Deductions—Net. 
 
 See also the “Analysis of Operating Segment Information” section of this Financial Review. 
 
 PROVISION/(BENEFIT) FOR TAXES ON INCOME 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 19/18 
 
 
 
 18/17 
 
 
 Provision/(benefit) for taxes on income 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,384 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 706 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (9,049 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 96 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 Effective tax rate on continuing operations 
 
 
 
 7.8 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 5.9 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 (73.5 
 
 )% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 Indicates calculation not meaningful or result is equal to or greater than 100%. 
 
 2019 v. 2018 
 The higher effective tax rate in 2019 compared to 2018 was mainly the result of: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the tax expense of approximately $2.7 billion associated with the gain related to the completion of the Consumer Healthcare joint venture transaction with GSK; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the non-recurrence of certain tax initiatives and favorable adjustments to the provisional estimate of the TCJA, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 33 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 an increase in tax benefits associated with the resolution of certain tax positions pertaining to prior years, primarily due to a benefit of $1.4 billion , representing tax and interest, resulting from the favorable settlement of a U.S. IRS audit; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 benefits related to certain tax initiatives associated with the implementation of our new organizational structure; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the tax benefit recorded as a result of additional guidance issued by the U.S. Department of Treasury related to the enactment of the TCJA; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the favorable change in the jurisdictional mix of earnings as a result of operating fluctuations in the normal course of business. 
 2018 v. 2017 
 The higher effective tax rate in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily the result of: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the non-recurrence of a $10.7 billion tax benefit recorded in 2017 to reflect the enactment of the TCJA, 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 tax benefits related to the TCJA, including certain 2018 tax initiatives as well as favorable adjustments to the provisional estimate of the impact of the legislation, reported and disclosed within the applicable measurement period, in accordance with guidance issued by the SEC; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the favorable change in the jurisdictional mix of earnings as a result of operating fluctuations in the normal course of business; as well as 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 an increase in tax benefits associated with the resolution of certain tax positions pertaining to prior years primarily with various foreign tax authorities, and the expiration of certain statutes of limitations. 
 
 For details about discrete elements that impacted our tax provisions, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 5A. Tax Matters: Taxes on Income from Continuing Operations . 
 Changes in Tax Laws 
 
 On December 22, 2017, the U.S. enacted significant changes to U.S. tax law following the passage and signing of the TCJA. The TCJA is complex and significantly changes the U.S. corporate income tax system by, among other things, reducing the U.S. Federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, transitioning U.S. international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a territorial tax system and imposing a repatriation tax on deemed repatriated accumulated post-1986 earnings of foreign subsidiaries. In accordance with guidance issued by the SEC we recorded provisional estimates of the legislation in the fourth-quarter 2017. In 2018, we finalized our provisional accounting for the tax effects of the TCJA based on our best estimates of available information and data, and have reported and disclosed the impacts within the applicable measurement period, in accordance with guidance issued by the SEC. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 5A. Tax Matters: Taxes on Income from Continuing Operations and the “Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources––Selected Measures of Liquidity and Capital Resources—Contractual Obligations” section of this Financial Review. 
 
 On January 23, 2017, the Governor of Puerto Rico signed into law Act No. 3-2017, amending Section 2101 of the Puerto Rico Internal Revenue Code of 1994, which imposes an excise tax that was effective beginning in 2011 (Act 154). The excise tax is imposed on the purchase of products by multinational corporations and their affiliates from their Puerto Rico affiliates. As originally adopted, the excise tax was to be in effect from 2011 through 2016 and the tax rate was to decline over time from 4% in 2011 to 1% in 2016. Act No. 2-2013 extended the excise tax through 2017 and, effective July 1, 2013, increased the tax rate to 4% for all years through 2017. Act No. 3-2017 further extended the excise tax for all years through 2027 at a rate of 4%. The excise tax has been recorded in Cost of sales and Provision/(benefit) for taxes on income, as appropriate. All expected impacts in 2020 have been reflected in our financial guidance for 2020 . 
 
 NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURE (ADJUSTED INCOME) 
 General Description of Non-GAAP Financial Measure (Adjusted Income) 
 
 Adjusted income is an alternative view of performance used by management. We measure the performance of the overall Company on this basis in conjunction with other performance metrics. Because Adjusted income is an important internal measurement for Pfizer, we believe that investors’ understanding of our performance is enhanced by disclosing this performance measure. We report Adjusted income, certain components of Adjusted income, and Adjusted diluted earnings per share in order to portray the results of our major operations––the discovery, development, manufacture, marketing and sale of prescription medicines and vaccines––prior to considering certain income statement elements. We have defined Adjusted income as Net income attributable to Pfizer Inc. before the impact of purchase accounting for acquisitions, acquisition-related costs, discontinued operations and certain significant items, which are described below. Similarly, we have defined the Adjusted income components as Cost of sales, Selling, informational and administrative expenses, Research and development expenses, Amortization of intangible assets and Other (income)/deductions––net each before the impact of purchase accounting for acquisitions, acquisition-related costs and certain significant items. We have defined Adjusted diluted earnings per share as Earnings per common share attributable to Pfizer Inc.––diluted before the impact of purchase accounting for acquisitions, acquisition-related costs, discontinued operations and certain significant items. The Adjusted income measure, the Adjusted income component measures and the Adjusted diluted earnings per share measure are not, and should not be viewed as, substitutes for U.S. GAAP net income, U.S. GAAP net income components or U.S. GAAP diluted earnings per share. 
 The following are examples of how the Adjusted income and Adjusted diluted earnings per share measures are utilized: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 senior management receives a monthly analysis of our operating results that is prepared on an Adjusted income and Adjusted diluted earnings per share basis; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 our annual budgets are prepared on an Adjusted income and Adjusted diluted earnings per share basis; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 senior management’s annual compensation is derived, in part, using Adjusted income and Adjusted diluted earnings per share measures. The bonus plans for virtually all bonus-eligible, non-sales-force employees worldwide, including the Executive Leadership Team members 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 34 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 and other members of senior management, are funded from a pool based on the performance measured by three financial metrics, including Adjusted diluted earnings per share, which is derived from Adjusted income. This metric accounts for 40% of the bonus pool funding. In addition, effective in 2019, Adjusted net income, which is derived from Adjusted income, is one of the measures utilized to determine payout for PSAs and is used for performance years starting in 2019, except for the 2017 PSA grant that used the previous metric, Adjusted operating income. 
 Adjusted income and its components and Adjusted diluted earnings per share are non-GAAP financial measures that have no standardized meaning prescribed by U.S. GAAP and, therefore, are limited in their usefulness to investors. Because of their non-standardized definitions, Adjusted income and its components (unlike U.S. GAAP net income and its components) and Adjusted diluted earnings per share (unlike U.S. GAAP diluted earnings per share) may not be comparable to the calculation of similar measures of other companies. Adjusted income and its components and Adjusted diluted earnings per share are presented solely to permit investors to more fully understand how management assesses performance. 
 
 We also recognize that, as internal measures of performance, the Adjusted income and its components and Adjusted diluted earnings per share measures have limitations, and we do not restrict our performance-management process solely to these metrics. A limitation of these measures is that they provide a view of our operations without including all events during a period, such as the effects of an acquisition or amortization of purchased intangibles, and do not provide a comparable view of our performance to other companies in the biopharmaceutical industry. We also use other specifically tailored tools designed to achieve the highest levels of performance. For example, our R&D organization has productivity targets, upon which its effectiveness is measured. In addition, total shareholder return, both on an absolute basis and relative to a publicly traded pharmaceutical index, plays a significant role in determining payouts under certain of Pfizer’s long-term incentive compensation plans. 
 
 See the accompanying reconciliations of certain GAAP reported to non-GAAP adjusted information for 2019 , 2018 and 2017 below. 
 
 Purchase Accounting Adjustments 
 
 Adjusted income is calculated prior to considering certain significant purchase accounting impacts resulting from business combinations and net asset acquisitions. These impacts, primarily associated with Wyeth (acquired in 2009), Hospira (acquired in 2015), Anacor (acquired in 2016) and Medivation (acquired in 2016), can include the incremental charge to cost of sales from the sale of acquired inventory that was written up to fair value, amortization related to the increase in fair value of the acquired finite-lived intangible assets, and to a much lesser extent, depreciation related to the increase/decrease in fair value of the acquired fixed assets (primarily manufacturing facilities), amortization related to the increase in fair value of acquired debt, and the fair value changes associated with contingent consideration. Therefore, the Adjusted income measure includes the revenues earned upon the sale of the acquired products without considering the acquisition cost of those products. 
 
 Certain of the purchase accounting adjustments can occur through 20 or more years, but this presentation provides an alternative view of our performance that is used by management to internally assess business performance. We believe the elimination of amortization attributable to acquired intangible assets provides management and investors an alternative view of our business results by trying to provide a degree of parity to internally developed intangible assets for which R&D costs previously have been expensed. 
 
 However, a completely accurate comparison of internally developed intangible assets and acquired intangible assets cannot be achieved through Adjusted income. This component of Adjusted income is derived solely from the impacts of the items listed in the first paragraph of this section. We have not factored in the impacts of any other differences in experience that might have occurred if we had discovered and developed those intangible assets on our own, and this approach does not intend to be representative of the results that would have occurred in those circumstances. For example, our R&D costs in total, and in the periods presented, may have been different; our speed to commercialization and resulting sales, if any, may have been different; or our costs to manufacture may have been different. In addition, our marketing efforts may have been received differently by our customers. As such, in total, there can be no assurance that our Adjusted income amounts would have been the same as presented had we discovered and developed the acquired intangible assets. 
 
 Acquisition-Related Costs 
 
 Adjusted income is calculated prior to considering transaction, integration, restructuring charges and additional depreciation costs associated with business combinations because these costs are unique to each transaction and represent costs that were incurred to restructure and integrate two businesses as a result of the acquisition decision. For additional clarity, only transaction costs, additional depreciation and restructuring and integration activities that are associated with a business combination or a net-asset acquisition are included in acquisition-related costs. We have made no adjustments for the resulting synergies. 
 
 We believe that viewing income prior to considering these charges provides investors with a useful additional perspective because the significant costs incurred in connection with a business combination result primarily from the need to eliminate duplicate assets, activities or employees––a natural result of acquiring a fully integrated set of activities. For this reason, we believe that the costs incurred to convert disparate systems, to close duplicative facilities or to eliminate duplicate positions (for example, in the context of a business combination) can be viewed differently from those costs incurred in other, more normal, business contexts. 
 
 The integration and restructuring costs associated with a business combination may occur over several years, with the more significant impacts typically ending within three years of the transaction. Because of the need for certain external approvals for some actions, the span of time needed to achieve certain restructuring and integration activities can be lengthy. For example, due to the highly regulated nature of the pharmaceutical business, the closure of excess facilities can take several years, as all manufacturing changes are subject to extensive validation and testing and must be approved by the FDA and/or other global regulatory authorities. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 35 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Discontinued Operations 
 
 Adjusted income is calculated prior to considering the results of operations included in discontinued operations, as well as any related gains or losses on the disposal of such operations. We believe that this presentation is meaningful to investors because, while we review our businesses and product lines for strategic fit with our operations, we do not build or run our businesses with the intent to sell them. Restatements due to discontinued operations do not impact compensation or change the Adjusted income measure for the compensation in respect of the restated periods, but are presented for consistency across all periods. 
 
 Certain Significant Items 
 
 Adjusted income is calculated prior to considering certain significant items. Certain significant items represent substantive and/or unusual items that are evaluated on an individual basis. Such evaluation considers both the quantitative and the qualitative aspects of their nature. Certain significant items may be highly variable and difficult to predict. Furthermore, in some cases it is reasonably possible that they could reoccur in future periods. For example, major non-acquisition-related cost-reduction programs stand on their own as they are specific to an event or goal with a defined term, but we may have subsequent programs based on reorganizations of the business, cost productivity or in response to loss of exclusivity or economic conditions. Legal charges to resolve litigation are also related to specific cases, which are facts and circumstances specific and, in some cases, may also be the result of litigation matters at acquired companies that were inestimable, not probable or unresolved at the date of acquisition. Unusual items may represent items that are not part of our ongoing business; items that, either as a result of their nature or size, we would not expect to occur as part of our normal business on a regular basis; items that would be non-recurring; or items that relate to products we no longer sell. While not all-inclusive, examples of items that could be included as certain significant items would be gains on the completion of joint venture transactions such as the gain on the completion of the Consumer Healthcare joint venture transaction discussed in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 2C. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Equity-Method Investments and Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Arrangements and Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements : Equity-Method Investment and Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale , a major non-acquisition-related restructuring charge and associated implementation costs; amounts related to certain disposals of businesses, products or facilities that do not qualify as discontinued operations under U.S. GAAP; certain intangible asset impairments; adjustments related to the resolution of certain tax positions; the impact of adopting certain significant, event-driven tax legislation, such as the TCJA discussed in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 5A. Tax Matters: Taxes on Income from Continuing Operations or charges related to certain legal matters, such as certain of those discussed in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 16A. Contingencies and Certain Commitments : Legal Proceedings and in Part II, ITEM 1, “Legal Proceedings” in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. Normal, ongoing defense costs of the Company or settlements of and accruals for legal matters made in the normal course of our business would not be considered certain significant items. 
 
 Beginning in 2019, we exclude the gains and losses from equity securities from our measure of Adjusted income because of their inherent volatility, which we do not control and cannot predict with any level of certainty and because we do not believe that including these gains and losses assists investors in understanding our business or is reflective of our core operations and business. For example, in 2018, we contributed assets related to our allogeneic CAR T therapy to Allogene and received equity securities. We have revised Adjusted income and Adjusted diluted EPS for prior periods for consistency with our 2019 presentation. 
 Reconciliation of GAAP Reported to Non-GAAP Adjusted Information––Certain Line Items 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2019 
 
 
 IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER COMMON SHARE DATA 
 
 
 
 GAAP Reported 
 
 
 
 
 
 Purchase Accounting Adjustments (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Acquisition-Related Costs (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Discontinued Operations (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Certain Significant Items (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Non-GAAP Adjusted 
 
 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 51,750 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 51,750 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 
 
 10,219 
 
 
 
 
 
 19 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (208 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 10,030 
 
 
 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses 
 
 
 
 14,350 
 
 
 
 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 (2 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (309 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 14,041 
 
 
 
 
 Research and development expenses 
 
 
 
 8,650 
 
 
 
 
 
 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (666 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 7,988 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization of intangible assets 
 
 
 
 4,610 
 
 
 
 
 
 (4,339 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 271 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 
 
 
 
 747 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (183 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (565 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 (Gain) on completion of Consumer Healthcare JV transaction 
 
 
 
 (8,086 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 8,086 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Other (income)/deductions––net 
 
 
 
 3,578 
 
 
 
 
 
 (21 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (3,858 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (300 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Income from continuing operations before provision/(benefit) for taxes on income 
 
 
 
 17,682 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,333 
 
 
 
 
 
 185 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (2,481 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 19,720 
 
 
 
 
 Provision/(benefit) for taxes on income (b) 
 
 
 
 1,384 
 
 
 
 
 
 848 
 
 
 
 
 
 59 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 667 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,958 
 
 
 
 
 Income from continuing operations 
 
 
 
 16,298 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,485 
 
 
 
 
 
 126 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (3,148 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 16,762 
 
 
 
 
 Discontinued operations––net of tax 
 
 
 
 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (4 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 
 
 
 
 29 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 29 
 
 
 
 
 Net income attributable to Pfizer Inc. 
 
 
 
 16,273 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,485 
 
 
 
 
 
 126 
 
 
 
 
 
 (4 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (3,148 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 16,733 
 
 
 
 
 Earnings per common share attributable to Pfizer Inc.––diluted 
 
 
 
 2.87 
 
 
 
 
 
 0.61 
 
 
 
 
 
 0.02 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (0.55 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 2.95 
 
 
 See end of tables for notes (a) and (b) . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 36 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER COMMON SHARE DATA 
 
 
 
 GAAP Reported 
 
 
 
 
 
 Purchase Accounting Adjustments (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Acquisition-Related Costs (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Discontinued Operations (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Certain Significant Items (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Non-GAAP Adjusted 
 
 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 53,647 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 53,647 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 
 
 11,248 
 
 
 
 
 
 3 
 
 
 
 
 
 (10 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (110 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 11,130 
 
 
 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses 
 
 
 
 14,455 
 
 
 
 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 (2 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (222 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 14,232 
 
 
 
 
 Research and development expenses 
 
 
 
 8,006 
 
 
 
 
 
 3 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (47 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 7,962 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization of intangible assets 
 
 
 
 4,893 
 
 
 
 
 
 (4,612 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 281 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 
 
 
 
 1,044 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (299 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (745 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 (Gain) on completion of Consumer Healthcare JV transaction 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Other (income)/deductions––net 
 
 
 
 2,116 
 
 
 
 
 
 (182 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (7 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (2,595 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (667 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Income from continuing operations before provision/(benefit) for taxes on income 
 
 
 
 11,885 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,786 
 
 
 
 
 
 318 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,719 
 
 
 
 
 
 20,709 
 
 
 
 
 Provision/(benefit) for taxes on income (b) 
 
 
 
 706 
 
 
 
 
 
 915 
 
 
 
 
 
 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,520 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,196 
 
 
 
 
 Income from continuing operations 
 
 
 
 11,179 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,871 
 
 
 
 
 
 264 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,199 
 
 
 
 
 
 17,513 
 
 
 
 
 Discontinued operations––net of tax 
 
 
 
 10 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (10 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 
 
 
 
 36 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 36 
 
 
 
 
 Net income attributable to Pfizer Inc. 
 
 
 
 11,153 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,871 
 
 
 
 
 
 264 
 
 
 
 
 
 (10 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 2,199 
 
 
 
 
 
 17,477 
 
 
 
 
 Earnings per common share attributable to Pfizer Inc.––diluted 
 
 
 
 1.87 
 
 
 
 
 
 0.65 
 
 
 
 
 
 0.04 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 0.37 
 
 
 
 
 
 2.92 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER COMMON SHARE DATA 
 
 
 
 GAAP Reported 
 
 
 
 
 
 Purchase Accounting Adjustments (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Acquisition-Related Costs (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Discontinued Operations (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Certain Significant Items (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Non-GAAP Adjusted 
 
 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 52,546 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 52,546 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 
 
 11,228 
 
 
 
 
 
 (47 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (39 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (363 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 10,778 
 
 
 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses 
 
 
 
 14,804 
 
 
 
 
 
 (16 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (299 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 14,489 
 
 
 
 
 Research and development expenses 
 
 
 
 7,683 
 
 
 
 
 
 8 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (38 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 7,653 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization of intangible assets 
 
 
 
 4,758 
 
 
 
 
 
 (4,565 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 193 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 
 
 
 
 351 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (426 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 75 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 (Gain) on completion of Consumer Healthcare JV transaction 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Other (income)/deductions––net 
 
 
 
 1,416 
 
 
 
 
 
 (138 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 9 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (1,796 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (509 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Income from continuing operations before provision/(benefit) for taxes on income 
 
 
 
 12,305 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,758 
 
 
 
 
 
 456 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,423 
 
 
 
 
 
 19,941 
 
 
 
 
 Provision/(benefit) for taxes on income (b) 
 
 
 
 (9,049 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 1,331 
 
 
 
 
 
 173 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 11,506 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,962 
 
 
 
 
 Income from continuing operations 
 
 
 
 21,353 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,426 
 
 
 
 
 
 283 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (9,083 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 15,980 
 
 
 
 
 Discontinued operations––net of tax 
 
 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (2 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 
 
 
 
 47 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 47 
 
 
 
 
 Net income attributable to Pfizer Inc. 
 
 
 
 21,308 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,426 
 
 
 
 
 
 283 
 
 
 
 
 
 (2 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (9,083 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 15,933 
 
 
 
 
 Earnings per common share attributable to Pfizer Inc.––diluted 
 
 
 
 3.52 
 
 
 
 
 
 0.57 
 
 
 
 
 
 0.05 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (1.50 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 2.63 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 For details of adjustments, see “Details of Income Statement Items Included in GAAP Reported but Excluded from Non-GAAP Adjusted Income” below. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 The effective tax rate on Non-GAAP Adjusted income was 15.0% in 2019 , 15.4% in 2018 and 19.9% in 2017 . The decrease in the effective tax rate on Non-GAAP Adjusted income for 2019, compared with 2018, was primarily due to a favorable change in the jurisdictional mix of earnings as a result of operating fluctuations in the normal course of business, partially offset by a decrease in tax benefits associated with the resolution of certain tax positions pertaining to prior years primarily with various foreign tax authorities. The decrease in the effective tax rate on Non-GAAP Adjusted income for 2018 compared with 2017 was primarily due to tax benefits associated with the December 2017 enactment of the TCJA, a favorable change in the jurisdictional mix of earnings as a result of operating fluctuations in the normal course of business, as well as an increase in benefits associated with the resolution of certain tax positions pertaining to prior years primarily with various foreign tax authorities, and the expiration of certain statutes of limitations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 37 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Details of Income Statement Items Included in GAAP Reported but Excluded from Non-GAAP Adjusted Income 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Adjusted income, as shown above, excludes the following items: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 Purchase accounting adjustments 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization, depreciation and other (a) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 4,353 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 4,789 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 4,711 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 
 
 (19 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (3 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 47 
 
 
 
 
 Total purchase accounting adjustments—pre-tax 
 
 
 
 4,333 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,786 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,758 
 
 
 
 
 Income taxes (b) 
 
 
 
 (848 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (915 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (1,331 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Total purchase accounting adjustments—net of tax 
 
 
 
 3,485 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,871 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,426 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Acquisition-related costs 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges/(credits) (c) 
 
 
 
 (192 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 105 
 
 
 
 
 Transaction costs (c) 
 
 
 
 63 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 4 
 
 
 
 
 Integration costs and other (c) 
 
 
 
 311 
 
 
 
 
 
 260 
 
 
 
 
 
 317 
 
 
 
 
 Net periodic benefit costs/(credits) other than service costs (d) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 7 
 
 
 
 
 
 (9 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Additional depreciation—asset restructuring (e) 
 
 
 
 3 
 
 
 
 
 
 12 
 
 
 
 
 
 39 
 
 
 
 
 Total acquisition-related costs—pre-tax 
 
 
 
 185 
 
 
 
 
 
 318 
 
 
 
 
 
 456 
 
 
 
 
 Income taxes (f) 
 
 
 
 (59 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (54 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (173 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Total acquisition-related costs—net of tax 
 
 
 
 126 
 
 
 
 
 
 264 
 
 
 
 
 
 283 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Discontinued operations 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total discontinued operations—net of tax, attributable to Pfizer Inc. (g) 
 
 
 
 (4 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (10 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (2 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Certain significant items 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges/(credits) –– cost reduction initiatives (h) 
 
 
 
 565 
 
 
 
 
 
 745 
 
 
 
 
 
 (75 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Implementation costs and additional depreciation—asset restructuring (i) 
 
 
 
 194 
 
 
 
 
 
 232 
 
 
 
 
 
 279 
 
 
 
 
 Certain legal matters, net (j) 
 
 
 
 543 
 
 
 
 
 
 157 
 
 
 
 
 
 237 
 
 
 
 
 Certain asset impairments (j) 
 
 
 
 2,798 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,101 
 
 
 
 
 
 379 
 
 
 
 
 Business and legal entity alignment costs (k) 
 
 
 
 495 
 
 
 
 
 
 63 
 
 
 
 
 
 71 
 
 
 
 
 Net gains recognized during the period on equity securities (j) 
 
 
 
 (415 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (586 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (224 
 
 ) 
 
 
 (Gain) on completion of Consumer Healthcare JV transaction (l) 
 
 
 
 (8,086 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Net losses on early retirement of debt (j) 
 
 
 
 138 
 
 
 
 
 
 3 
 
 
 
 
 
 999 
 
 
 
 
 Other (m) 
 
 
 
 1,289 
 
 
 
 
 
 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 756 
 
 
 
 
 Total certain significant items—pre-tax 
 
 
 
 (2,481 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 3,719 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,423 
 
 
 
 
 Income taxes (n) 
 
 
 
 (667 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (1,520 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (11,506 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Total certain significant items—net of tax 
 
 
 
 (3,148 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 2,199 
 
 
 
 
 
 (9,083 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Total purchase accounting adjustments, acquisition-related costs, discontinued operations and certain significant items—net of tax, attributable to Pfizer Inc. 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 460 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 6,324 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (5,376 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 Included primarily in Amortization of intangible assets . 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 Included in Provision/(benefit) for taxes on income. Income taxes includes the tax effect of the associated pre-tax amounts, calculated by determining the jurisdictional location of the pre-tax amounts and applying that jurisdiction’s applicable tax rate. Income taxes recorded in 2017 do not reflect any changes associated with the enactment of the TCJA. These changes resulting from the TCJA have been reflected in the line ITEM, Certain significant items “Income taxes”. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 Included in Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs . Restructuring charges/(credits) include employee termination costs, asset impairments and other exit costs associated with business combinations. Transaction costs represent external costs for banking, legal, accounting and other similar services. Integration costs and other represent external, incremental costs directly related to integrating acquired businesses, such as expenditures for consulting and the integration of systems and processes and certain other qualifying costs. For additional information, see the “Costs and Expenses—Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives ” section of this Financial Review and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 3 . Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives . 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) 
 
 Included in Other (income)/deductions—net. The credits in 2017 included a net settlement gain, partially offset by accelerated amortization of actuarial losses and prior service costs upon the settlement of the remaining obligation associated with the Hospira U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plan. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 11. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans and Defined Contribution Plans . 
 
 
 
 
 
 (e) 
 
 In 2019, primarily included in Selling, informational and administrative expenses. In 2018 and 2017, primarily included in C ost of sales. Represents the impact of changes in estimated useful lives of assets involved in restructuring actions related to acquisitions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (f) 
 
 Included in Provision/(benefit) for taxes on income. Income taxes includes the tax effect of the associated pre-tax amounts, calculated by determining the jurisdictional location of the pre-tax amounts and applying that jurisdiction’s applicable tax rate. 2019 includes the impact of the non-taxable reversal of certain accruals related to our acquisition of Wyeth upon the effective favorable settlement of a U.S. IRS audit for multiple tax years. Income taxes recorded in 2017 do not reflect any changes associated with the December 2017 enactment of the TCJA. These changes resulting from the TCJA have been reflected in Certain significant items “Income taxes”. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (g) 
 
 Included in Discontinued operations––net of tax. For all years presented, represents post-close adjustments. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 38 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (h) 
 
 Amounts relate to employee termination costs, asset impairments and other exit costs not associated with acquisitions, which are included in Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs (see the “Costs and Expenses—Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives ” section of this Financial Review and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 3 . Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives ). 
 
 
 
 
 
 (i) 
 
 Amounts relate to our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives not related to acquisitions (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 3. Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives ). For 2019 , included in Cost of sales ( $90 million ), Selling, informational and administrative expenses ( $74 million ) and Research and development expenses ( $30 million ). For 2018 , included in Cost of sales ( $121 million ), Selling, informational and administrative expenses ( $72 million ) and Research and development expenses ( $39 million ). For 2017 , included in Cost of sales ( $170 million ), Selling, informational and administrative expenses ( $71 million ) and Research and development expenses ( $38 million ). 
 
 
 
 
 
 (j) 
 
 Included in Other (income)/deductions—net (see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 4. Other (Income)/Deductions—Net ). 
 
 
 
 
 
 (k) 
 
 In 2019, primarily included in Cost of sales ( $15 million ), Selling, informational and administrative expenses ( $139 million ) and Other (income)/deductions––net ( $338 million ) and represents (i) incremental costs of $350 million associated with the design, planning and implementation of our new organizational structure, effective in the beginning of 2019, and primarily includes consulting, legal, tax and advisory services and (ii) separation costs of $145 million associated with our planned Upjohn transaction with Mylan and mainly includes consulting, legal, tax and advisory services . In full-year 2018, primarily included in Other (income)/deductions––net and mainly represents incremental costs associated with the design, planning and implementation of our new organizational structure, effective in the beginning of 2019, and primarily includes consulting, legal, tax and advisory services. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (l) 
 
 Included in (Gain) on completion of Consumer Healthcare JV transaction (see notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 2C. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Equity-Method Investments and Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Arrangements and Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements : Equity-Method Investments and Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale ). 
 
 
 
 
 
 (m) 
 
 For 2019 , included in Cost of sales ( $103 million ), Selling, informational and administrative expenses ( $96 million ), Research and development expenses ( $632 million ) and Other (income)/deductions––net ( $457 million ). For 2018 , included in Cost of sales ( $10 million income), Selling, informational and administrative expenses ( $151 million ), Research and development expenses ( $8 million ) and Other (income)/deductions––net ( $143 million income). For 2017 , included in Cost of sales ( $193 million ), Selling, informational and administrative expenses ( $229 million ) and Other (income)/deductions––net ( $334 million ). For 2019 includes, among other things, (i) an upfront license fee payment of $250 million to Akcea, which was recorded in Research and development expenses, (ii) charges of $112 million recorded in Other (income)/deductions––net representing our pro rata share of primarily restructuring and business combination accounting charges recorded by the Consumer Healthcare joint venture, (iii) a $337 million charge in Research and development expenses related to our acquisition of Therachon, (iv) a $99 million charge in Cost of sales related to rivipansel, primarily for inventory manufactured for expected future sale and (v) charges of $240 million , primarily in Selling, informational and administrative expenses ( $87 million ) and Other (income)/deductions––net ( $152 million ), for external incremental costs, such as transaction costs and costs to separate our Consumer Healthcare business into a separate legal entity associated with the formation of the GSK Consumer Healthcare joint venture. For 2018, includes, among other things, (i) a non-cash $343 million pre-tax gain in Other (income)/deductions––net associated with our transaction with Bain Capital to create a new biopharmaceutical company, Cerevel, to continue development of a portfolio of clinical and preclinical stage neuroscience assets primarily targeting disorders of the central nervous system, (ii) a $119 million charge, in the aggregate, in Selling, informational and administrative expenses for a special, one-time bonus paid to virtually all Pfizer colleagues, excluding executives, which was one of several actions taken by us after evaluating the expected positive net impact of the December 2017 enactment of the legislation commonly referred to as the TCJA and (iii) a non-cash $50 million pre-tax gain in Other (income)/deductions––net as a result of the contribution of our allogeneic chimeric antigen receptor T cell therapy development program assets in connection with our contribution agreement entered into with Allogene (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 2B. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Equity-Method Investments and Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Arrangements and Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements : Divestitures ). For 2017, includes, among other things, (i) a charitable contribution to the Pfizer Foundation of $200 million , which is included in Selling, informational and administrative expenses ; (ii) $195 million in inventory losses, overhead costs related to the period in which our Puerto Rico plants were not operational, and incremental costs, all of which resulted from hurricanes in Puerto Rico in 2017 and are included in Cost of sales ; (iii) an $81 million loss related to the sale of our former 49% equity share in Hisun Pfizer, which is included in Other (income)/deductions––net ; (iv) charges of $55 million in Other (income)/deductions––net representing adjustments to amounts previously recorded to write down the HIS net assets to fair value less costs to sell and (v) a net loss of $30 million related to the sale of our former 40% ownership investment in Teuto, including the extinguishment of a put option for the remaining 60% ownership interest, which is included in Other (income)/deductions––net . 
 
 
 
 
 
 (n) 
 
 Included in Provision/(benefit) for taxes on income. Income taxes includes the tax effect of the associated pre-tax amounts, calculated by determining the jurisdictional location of the pre-tax amounts and applying that jurisdiction’s applicable tax rate. Also included is the effect of certain U.S. tax consequences. The amount in 2019 was favorably impacted by a benefit of $1.4 billion , representing tax and interest, resulting from the favorable settlement of a U.S. IRS audit for multiple tax years, the benefits related to certain tax initiatives associated with the implementation of our new organizational structure, as well as the tax benefit recorded as a result of additional guidance issued by the U.S. Department of Treasury related to the TCJA and unfavorably impacted by the tax expense of approximately $2.7 billion associated with the gain related to the completion of the Consumer Healthcare joint venture transaction with GSK. The amount in 2018 was favorably impacted primarily by tax benefits related to the TCJA, including certain 2018 tax initiatives as well as adjustments to the provisional estimate of the legislation, reported and disclosed within the applicable measurement period, in accordance with guidance issued by the SEC. The amount in 2017 was favorably impacted by tax benefits primarily associated with the remeasurement of deferred tax liabilities, which includes the repatriation tax on deemed repatriated accumulated post-1986 earnings of foreign subsidiaries associated with the TCJA. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 5A. Tax Matters : Taxes on Income from Continuing Operations . 
 
 ANALYSIS OF OPERATING SEGMENT INFORMATION 
 
 The following tables and associated notes provide additional information about the performance of each of our two reportable operating segments for the periods presented—Biopharma and Upjohn, and our Consumer Healthcare operating segment through July 31, 2019. For additional information about each operating segment, see the “Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook—Our Strategy—Organizing for Growth” section of this Financial Review, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 17. Segment, Geographic and Other Revenue Information and the “Commercial Operations” section in Part I, ITEM 1, “Business” of our 2019 Form 10-K . 
 As described in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 1A. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies: Basis of Presentation , acquisitions impacted our results of operations in 2019 and 2017 , the contribution of our Consumer Healthcare business to the GSK Consumer Healthcare joint venture impacted our results of operations in 2019 and divestitures impacted our results of operations in 2017 . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 39 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following tables provide revenue and cost information by reportable operating segment and a reconciliation of that information to our consolidated statements of income: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2019 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 Biopharma (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Upjohn (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Other (b) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Non-GAAP Adjusted (c) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Reconciling Items (d) 
 
 
 
 
 
 GAAP Reported 
 
 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 39,419 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 10,233 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 2,098 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 51,750 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 51,750 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 
 
 7,579 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,724 
 
 
 
 
 
 727 
 
 
 
 
 
 10,030 
 
 
 
 
 
 189 
 
 
 
 
 
 10,219 
 
 
 
 
 % of revenue 
 
 
 
 19.2 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 16.8 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 19.4 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 19.7 
 
 % 
 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses 
 
 
 
 7,000 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,492 
 
 
 
 
 
 5,549 
 
 
 
 
 
 14,041 
 
 
 
 
 
 309 
 
 
 
 
 
 14,350 
 
 
 
 
 Research and development expenses 
 
 
 
 1,047 
 
 
 
 
 
 236 
 
 
 
 
 
 6,705 
 
 
 
 
 
 7,988 
 
 
 
 
 
 661 
 
 
 
 
 
 8,650 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization of intangible assets 
 
 
 
 271 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 271 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,339 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,610 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 747 
 
 
 
 
 
 747 
 
 
 
 
 (Gain) on completion of Consumer Healthcare JV transaction 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (8,086 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (8,086 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Other (income)/deductions––net 
 
 
 
 (993 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (5 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 698 
 
 
 
 
 
 (300 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 3,878 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,578 
 
 
 
 
 Income/(loss) from continuing operations before provision/(benefit) for taxes on income 
 
 
 
 24,517 
 
 
 
 
 
 6,785 
 
 
 
 
 
 (11,582 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 19,720 
 
 
 
 
 
 (2,037 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 17,682 
 
 
 See end of tables for notes (a) through (d). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 Biopharma (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Upjohn (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Other (b) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Non-GAAP Adjusted (c) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Reconciling 
 Items (d) 
 
 
 
 
 
 GAAP Reported 
 
 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 37,558 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 12,484 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 3,605 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 53,647 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 53,647 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 
 
 7,147 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,964 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,018 
 
 
 
 
 
 11,130 
 
 
 
 
 
 118 
 
 
 
 
 
 11,248 
 
 
 
 
 % of revenue 
 
 
 
 19.0 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 15.7 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 20.7 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 21.0 
 
 % 
 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses 
 
 
 
 6,678 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,668 
 
 
 
 
 
 5,886 
 
 
 
 
 
 14,232 
 
 
 
 
 
 223 
 
 
 
 
 
 14,455 
 
 
 
 
 Research and development expenses 
 
 
 
 907 
 
 
 
 
 
 233 
 
 
 
 
 
 6,822 
 
 
 
 
 
 7,962 
 
 
 
 
 
 43 
 
 
 
 
 
 8,006 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization of intangible assets 
 
 
 
 235 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 45 
 
 
 
 
 
 281 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,612 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,893 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,044 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,044 
 
 
 
 
 (Gain) on completion of Consumer Healthcare JV transaction 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Other (income)/deductions––net 
 
 
 
 (1,148 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (18 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 499 
 
 
 
 
 
 (667 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 2,784 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,116 
 
 
 
 
 Income/(loss) from continuing operations before provision/(benefit) for taxes on income 
 
 
 
 23,738 
 
 
 
 
 
 8,636 
 
 
 
 
 
 (11,666 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 20,709 
 
 
 
 
 
 (8,823 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 11,885 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 Biopharma (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Upjohn (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Other (b) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Non-GAAP Adjusted (c) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Reconciling Items (d) 
 
 
 
 
 
 GAAP Reported 
 
 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 35,530 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 13,447 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 3,569 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 52,546 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 52,546 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 
 
 7,012 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,919 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,847 
 
 
 
 
 
 10,778 
 
 
 
 
 
 449 
 
 
 
 
 
 11,228 
 
 
 
 
 % of revenue 
 
 
 
 19.7 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 14.3 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 20.5 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 21.4 
 
 % 
 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses 
 
 
 
 6,487 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,913 
 
 
 
 
 
 6,089 
 
 
 
 
 
 14,489 
 
 
 
 
 
 316 
 
 
 
 
 
 14,804 
 
 
 
 
 Research and development expenses 
 
 
 
 847 
 
 
 
 
 
 275 
 
 
 
 
 
 6,531 
 
 
 
 
 
 7,653 
 
 
 
 
 
 31 
 
 
 
 
 
 7,683 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization of intangible assets 
 
 
 
 149 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 44 
 
 
 
 
 
 193 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,565 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,758 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 351 
 
 
 
 
 
 351 
 
 
 
 
 (Gain) on completion of Consumer Healthcare JV transaction 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Other (income)/deductions––net 
 
 
 
 (1,159 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (8 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 658 
 
 
 
 
 
 (509 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 1,925 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,416 
 
 
 
 
 Income/(loss) from continuing operations before provision/(benefit) for taxes on income 
 
 
 
 22,194 
 
 
 
 
 
 9,348 
 
 
 
 
 
 (11,600 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 19,941 
 
 
 
 
 
 (7,637 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 12,305 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 Indicates calculation not meaningful or result is equal to or greater than 100%. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 Amounts represent the revenues and costs managed by each of the Biopharma and Upjohn reportable operating segments for the periods presented. The expenses generally include only those costs directly attributable to the operating segment. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 40 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 Other comprises the revenues and costs included in our Adjusted income components (see footnote (c) below) that are managed outside Biopharma and Upjohn and includes the following: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Other Business Activities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 WRDM (i) 
 
 
 
 
 
 GPD (ii) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Other (iii) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Corporate and Other Unallocated (iv) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 2,098 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 2,098 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 663 
 
 
 
 
 
 62 
 
 
 
 
 
 727 
 
 
 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses 
 
 
 
 146 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,218 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,185 
 
 
 
 
 
 5,549 
 
 
 
 
 Research and development expenses 
 
 
 
 2,398 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,311 
 
 
 
 
 
 89 
 
 
 
 
 
 908 
 
 
 
 
 
 6,705 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization of intangible assets 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 (Gain) on completion of Consumer Healthcare JV transaction 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Other (income)/deductions––net 
 
 
 
 (6 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 704 
 
 
 
 
 
 698 
 
 
 
 
 Income/(loss) from continuing operations before provision/(benefit) for taxes on income 
 
 
 
 (2,538 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (3,313 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 128 
 
 
 
 
 
 (5,859 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (11,582 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Other Business Activities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 WRDM (i) 
 
 
 
 
 
 GPD (ii) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Other (iii) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Corporate and Other Unallocated (iv) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 3,605 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 3,605 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,211 
 
 
 
 
 
 807 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,018 
 
 
 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses 
 
 
 
 159 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,753 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,974 
 
 
 
 
 
 5,886 
 
 
 
 
 Research and development expenses 
 
 
 
 2,319 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,359 
 
 
 
 
 
 179 
 
 
 
 
 
 965 
 
 
 
 
 
 6,822 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization of intangible assets 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 45 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 45 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 (Gain) on completion of Consumer Healthcare JV transaction 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Other (income)/deductions––net 
 
 
 
 (127 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (18 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 7 
 
 
 
 
 
 637 
 
 
 
 
 
 499 
 
 
 
 
 Income/(loss) from continuing operations before provision/(benefit) for taxes on income 
 
 
 
 (2,352 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (3,341 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 410 
 
 
 
 
 
 (6,383 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (11,666 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Other Business Activities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 WRDM (i) 
 
 
 
 
 
 GPD (ii) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Other (iii) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Corporate and Other Unallocated (iv) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 3,472 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 97 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 3,569 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,192 
 
 
 
 
 
 653 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,847 
 
 
 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses 
 
 
 
 143 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,741 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,204 
 
 
 
 
 
 6,089 
 
 
 
 
 Research and development expenses 
 
 
 
 2,363 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,151 
 
 
 
 
 
 176 
 
 
 
 
 
 840 
 
 
 
 
 
 6,531 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization of intangible assets 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 44 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 44 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 (Gain) on completion of Consumer Healthcare JV transaction 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Other (income)/deductions––net 
 
 
 
 (49 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (6 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 15 
 
 
 
 
 
 698 
 
 
 
 
 
 658 
 
 
 
 
 Income/(loss) from continuing operations before provision/(benefit) for taxes on income 
 
 
 
 (2,457 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (3,148 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 304 
 
 
 
 
 
 (6,299 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (11,600 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 (i) 
 
 WRDM—the R&D and Medical expenses managed by our WRDM organization, which is generally responsible for research projects for our Biopharma portfolio until proof-of-concept is achieved and then for transitioning those projects to the GPD organization for possible clinical and commercial development. R&D spending may include upfront and milestone payments for intellectual property rights. The WRDM organization also has responsibility for certain science-based and other platform-services organizations, which provide end-to-end technical expertise and other services to the various R&D projects, as well as the Worldwide Medical and Safety group, which ensures that Pfizer provides all stakeholders––including patients, healthcare providers, pharmacists, payers and health authorities––with complete and up-to-date information on the risks and benefits associated with Pfizer products so that they can make appropriate decisions on how and when to use Pfizer’s medicines. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 41 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (ii) 
 
 GPD––the costs associated with our GPD organization, which is generally responsible for clinical trials from WRDM in the Biopharma portfolio, including late stage portfolio spend. GPD also provides technical support and other services to Pfizer R&D projects. GPD is responsible for facilitating all regulatory submissions and interactions with regulatory agencies. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (iii) 
 
 Other—the operating results of our Consumer Healthcare business, through July 31, 2019, and costs associated with other commercial activities not managed as part of Biopharma or Upjohn, including all strategy, business development, portfolio management and valuation capabilities, which previously had been reported in various parts of the organization. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (iv) 
 
 Corporate and Other Unallocated—the costs associated with platform functions (such as worldwide technology, global real estate operations, legal, finance, human resources, worldwide public affairs, compliance and worldwide procurement), patient advocacy activities and certain compensation and other corporate costs, such as interest income and expense, and gains and losses on investments, as well as overhead expenses associated with our manufacturing (which include manufacturing variances associated with production) and commercial operations that are not directly assessed to an operating segment, as business unit (segment) management does not manage these costs. 
 We recognized the following amounts in Cost of sales related to forward-exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges of a portion of our foreign exchange-denominated forecasted intercompany inventory sales: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 a $247 million net gain in 2019 ; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 a $13 million net loss in 2018 ; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 a $52 million net gain in 2017 . 
 For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 7F. Financial Instruments : Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities . 
 
 For information purposes only, the following tables present reconciliations of the Biopharma segment operating results and Upjohn segment operating results to Biopharma and Upjohn operating results including estimated Other costs generally associated with the Biopharma and Upjohn operating segments for 2019 . While we do not manage our segments or have performance goals under such an allocated manner, we believe that some investors may find this information useful in their analyses. 
 The estimated Other costs generally associated with our operating segments do not purport to reflect the additional amounts that each of our operating segments would have incurred had each segment operated as a standalone company during the period presented. 
 For information purposes only, for 2019 , we estimate that Other costs attributable to our Biopharma and Upjohn segments, as described above, for combined WRDM, GPD and other business activities costs are $6.4 billion , and combined Corporate and Other Unallocated costs are $4.8 billion , which excludes income and costs associated with our Consumer Healthcare business. The combined Corporate and Other Unallocated costs also exclude (i) net interest-related expense not attributable to an operating segment included in Corporate (approximately $1.4 billion in Other (income)/deductions––net ); and (ii) net income from investments and other assets not attributable to an operating segment included in Corporate (approximately $318 million in Other (income)/deductions––net ). The remaining costs have been attributed to our Biopharma and Upjohn operating segments, as follows: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Estimated Other Costs Associated with Biopharma (ii) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 Biopharma Non-GAAP Adjusted (i), (iii) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Estimated WRDM/GPD/Other Business Activities (ii) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Estimated Corporate/Other Unallocated (ii) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Biopharma with Estimated Other Costs Associated with Biopharma Non-GAAP Adjusted (ii), (iii) 
 
 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 39,419 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 39,419 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 
 
 7,579 
 
 
 
 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 55 
 
 
 
 
 
 7,635 
 
 
 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses 
 
 
 
 7,000 
 
 
 
 
 
 611 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,268 
 
 
 
 
 
 10,879 
 
 
 
 
 Research and development expenses 
 
 
 
 1,047 
 
 
 
 
 
 5,721 
 
 
 
 
 
 873 
 
 
 
 
 
 7,640 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization of intangible assets 
 
 
 
 271 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 271 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 (Gain) on completion of Consumer Healthcare JV transaction 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Other (income)/deductions––net 
 
 
 
 (993 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (5 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (275 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (1,273 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Income/(loss) from continuing operations before provision/(benefit) for taxes on income 
 
 
 
 24,517 
 
 
 
 
 
 (6,329 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (3,921 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 14,267 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 42 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Estimated Other Costs Associated with Upjohn (ii) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 Upjohn Non-GAAP Adjusted (i), (iii) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Estimated WRDM/GPD/Other Business Activities (ii) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Estimated Corporate/Other Unallocated (ii) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Upjohn with Estimated Other Costs Associated with Upjohn Non-GAAP Adjusted (ii), (iii) 
 
 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 10,233 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 10,233 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 
 
 1,724 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (14 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 1,710 
 
 
 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses 
 
 
 
 1,492 
 
 
 
 
 
 34 
 
 
 
 
 
 753 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,280 
 
 
 
 
 Research and development expenses 
 
 
 
 236 
 
 
 
 
 
 5 
 
 
 
 
 
 21 
 
 
 
 
 
 262 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization of intangible assets 
 
 
 
 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 (Gain) on completion of Consumer Healthcare JV transaction 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Other (income)/deductions––net 
 
 
 
 (5 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (46 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (51 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Income/(loss) from continuing operations before provision/(benefit) for taxes on income 
 
 
 
 6,785 
 
 
 
 
 
 (39 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (714 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 6,031 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (i) 
 
 Amount represents the revenues and costs managed by each of our operating segments. The expenses generally include only those costs directly attributable to the operating segment. See note (a) above for more information. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (ii) 
 
 Represents costs not assessed to an operating segment, as business unit (segment) management does not manage these costs. For a description of these other costs and business activities, see note (b) above. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 WRDM/GPD/Other Business Activities –– The information provided for WRDM, GPD and Other Business Activities was substantially all derived from our estimates of the costs incurred in connection with the R&D projects associated with the Biopharma and Upjohn operating segment. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Corporate/Other Unallocated –– The information provided for Corporate and Other Unallocated was derived mainly using proportional allocation methods based on global, regional or country revenues or global, regional or country headcount, as well as certain cost metrics, as appropriate, such as those derived from R&D and manufacturing costs, and, to a lesser extent, specific identification and estimates. Management believes that the allocations of Corporate and Other Unallocated costs are reasonable. 
 The estimated Other costs generally associated with our Biopharma and Upjohn operating segments do not purport to reflect the additional amounts that each of our operating segments would have incurred had each segment operated as a standalone company during the period presented. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (iii) 
 
 See note (c) below for an explanation of our Non-GAAP Adjusted financial measure. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 See the “Non-GAAP Financial Measure (Adjusted Income)” section of this Financial Review for a definition of these “Adjusted Income” components. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) 
 
 Includes costs associated with (i) purchase accounting adjustments; (ii) acquisition-related costs; and (iii) certain significant items, which are substantive and/or unusual, and in some cases recurring, items (such as gains on the completion of joint venture transactions, restructuring charges, legal charges or net gains and losses on investment in equity securities), that are evaluated on an individual basis by management. For additional information about these reconciling items and/or our Non-GAAP adjusted measure of performance, see the “Non-GAAP Financial Measure (Adjusted Income)” section of this Financial Review. 
 
 Biopharma Operating Segment 
 
 2019 vs. 2018 
 
 Biopharma Revenues increase d $1.9 billion , or 5% , to $39.4 billion in 2019 from $37.6 billion in 2018 , reflecting an operational increase of $2.9 billion , or 8% , and an unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of $1.0 billion , or 3% . 
 The following graph illustrates the components of the net increase in Biopharma Revenues : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 LOE generally pertains to period-over-period revenue impacts for products across our portfolios experiencing patent expirations or loss of regulatory exclusivity in certain developed markets. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 43 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following provides an analysis of the increase in Biopharma worldwide Revenues : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Biopharma Revenues , 2018 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 37,558 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Operational growth/(decline): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Continued growth from certain key brands (a) 
 
 
 
 2,495 
 
 
 
 
 Higher revenue from continued growth of anti-infective products in China, driven by increased demand for Sulperazon and new launches, the 2018 U.S. launches of our immune globulin intravenous products (Panzyga and Octagam) and the launches of certain anti-infectives products (Zavicefta, Zinforo and Cresemba) in international developed and emerging markets, all in the Hospital products business 
 
 
 
 472 
 
 
 
 
 Higher revenues for Inlyta, primarily in the U.S. driven by increased demand resulting from the second quarter of 2019 U.S. FDA approvals for the combinations of certain immune checkpoint inhibitors plus Inlyta for the first-line treatment of patients with advanced RCC 
 
 
 
 190 
 
 
 
 
 Growth from Biosimilars, primarily in the U.S. 
 
 
 
 168 
 
 
 
 
 Higher revenues for rare disease products driven by the U.S. launches in May 2019 of Vyndaqel and in September 2019 of Vyndamax, for the treatment of transthyretin amyloid cardiomyopathy (ATTR-CM); and in international markets, primarily driven by continued uptake for the transthyretin amyloid polyneuropathy indication, primarily in developed Europe, as well as the March 2019 launch of the ATTR-CM indication in Japan, partially offset by lower revenues for certain rare disease products, including the hemophilia franchises (Refacto AF/Xyntha and BeneFIX), primarily due to competitive pressures, and Genotropin in developed markets, mainly due to unfavorable channel mix in the U.S. 
 
 
 
 159 
 
 
 
 
 Lower revenues from other Hospital products, primarily reflecting declines in developed markets, mostly due to the continued expected negative impact from generic competition for products that have previously lost marketing exclusivity 
 
 
 
 (447 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Lower revenues for Enbrel internationally, reflecting continued biosimilar competition in most developed Europe markets 
 
 
 
 (292 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Other operational factors, net 
 
 
 
 150 
 
 
 
 
 Operational growth, net 
 
 
 
 2,894 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Unfavorable impact of foreign exchange 
 
 
 
 (1,033 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Biopharma Revenues increase 
 
 
 
 1,862 
 
 
 
 
 Biopharma Revenues , 2019 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 39,419 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 Certain key brands represent Ibrance, Eliquis, Xeljanz and Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13. See the “Analysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income––Revenues––Selected Product Discussion" section of this Financial Review for product analysis information. 
 Total Biopharma revenues from emerging markets increase d $539 million , or 7% , to $8.2 billion in 2019 from $7.7 billion in 2018 , reflecting a 14% operational increase . Foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of 7% on total Biopharma revenues from emerging markets. The operational increase in emerging markets was primarily driven by Prevenar 13, Ibrance and Eliquis. 
 Costs and Expenses 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Cost of sales as a percentage of Revenues was relatively flat. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The increase in Cost of sales of 6% was mainly driven by an unfavorable change in product mix, an increase in royalty expenses based on the mix of products sold, and an increase in sales volumes for various products within our product portfolio, partially offset by a favorable impact of foreign exchange. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The increase in Selling, informational and administrative expenses of 5% was mostly driven by additional investment in emerging markets, the Oncology portfolio in developed markets, and for marketing and promotional expenses associated with the U.S. launches of Vyndaqel in May 2019 and Vyndamax in September 2019, as well as an increase in healthcare reform expenses, partially offset by a favorable impact of foreign exchange. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The increase in Research and development expenses of 15% was mainly related to the Array acquisition, as well as an increase in medical spend for new and growing products. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The unfavorable change in Other (income)/deductions––net primarily reflects a $246 million decrease in income from collaborations, out-licensing arrangements and sales of compound/product rights and a $33 million decrease in dividend income from our investment in ViiV, partially offset by an increase in royalty-related income mainly due to a one-time favorable resolution in the second quarter of 2019 of a legal dispute for $82 million , as well as a favorable impact of foreign exchange. 
 2018 vs. 2017 
 Biopharma Revenues increase d $2.0 billion , or 6% , to $37.6 billion in 2018 from $35.5 billion in 2017 , reflecting an operational increase of $1.9 billion , or 5% , and a favorable impact of foreign exchange of $168 million , or 1% . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 44 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following graph illustrates the components of the net increase in Biopharma Revenues : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 LOE generally pertains to period-over-period revenue impacts for products across our portfolios experiencing patent expirations or loss of regulatory exclusivity in certain developed markets. 
 The following provides an analysis of the increase in Biopharma Revenues : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Biopharma Revenues, 2017 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 35,530 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Operational growth/(decline): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Continued growth from certain key brands (a) 
 
 
 
 2,715 
 
 
 
 
 Growth from Biosimilars, primarily from Inflectra in certain channels in the U.S. and developed Europe markets 
 
 
 
 217 
 
 
 
 
 Growth from recently launched products, including Eucrisa in the U.S., as well as Besponsa and Bavencio, primarily in the U.S. and developed Europe 
 
 
 
 195 
 
 
 
 
 Decline in the Hospital products business, driven by lower revenues in developed markets, primarily due to increased competition across the portfolio and continued legacy Hospira product shortages in the U.S., partially offset by an increase in emerging markets, primarily in China 
 
 
 
 (482 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Lower revenues for Enbrel, primarily in most developed Europe markets due to continued biosimilar competition 
 
 
 
 (350 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Lower revenues for the Premarin family of products and Pristiq primarily driven by generic competition in the U.S. 
 
 
 
 (241 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Lower revenues from the hemophilia portfolio (BeneFIX and Refacto AF/Xyntha), primarily in developed Europe 
 
 
 
 (100 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Other operational factors, net 
 
 
 
 (93 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Operational growth, net 
 
 
 
 1,860 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Favorable impact of foreign exchange 
 
 
 
 168 
 
 
 
 
 Biopharma Revenues increase 
 
 
 
 2,028 
 
 
 
 
 Biopharma Revenues, 2018 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 37,558 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 Certain key brands represent Ibrance, Eliquis, Xeljanz, Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13, Xtandi and Chantix/Champix. 
 Total Biopharma revenues from emerging markets increase d $878 million , or 13% , to $7.7 billion in 2018 from $6.8 billion in 2017 , reflecting a 16% operational increase . Foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of 3% on total Biopharma revenues from emerging markets. The operational increase in emerging markets was primarily driven by Prevenar 13, Sulperazon, Ibrance and Eliquis. 
 Costs and Expenses 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Cost of sales as a percentage of Revenues decrease d 0.7 percentage points mainly driven by a favorable change in product mix, which includes an increase in alliance revenue which has no associated cost of sales, and a favorable impact of foreign exchange, partially offset by an increase in royalty expenses based on the mix of products sold. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The increase in Cost of sales of 2% was mostly driven by an increase in royalty expenses based on the mix of products sold, an unfavorable change in product mix, and an increase in sales volumes for various products within our product portfolio, partially offset by a favorable impact of foreign exchange. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The increase in Selling, informational and administrative expenses of 3% was mainly driven by additional investment across several of our products, primarily Xeljanz, Ibrance, Eucrisa and Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13 (pediatric indication), partially offset by lower marketing, advertising and promotion expenses, reflecting the benefits of cost-reduction and productivity initiatives. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The increase in Research and development expenses of 7% was driven by an increase in medical spend, mostly in Oncology (including Ibrance, as well as investments for new global capabilities) and expenses associated with the creation of new business units, as well as support for recently launched assets (including Talzenna), partially offset by a decrease in spend on products transferred from EH to Internal Medicine and on Hospital products. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Other (income)/deductions––net was relatively unchanged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 45 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Upjohn Operating Segment 
 2019 vs. 2018 
 Upjohn Revenues decrease d $2.3 billion , or 18% , to $10.2 billion in 2019 from $12.5 billion in 2018 , reflecting an operational decrease of $2.0 billion , or 16% , and an unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of $249 million , or 2% . 
 The following graph illustrates the components of the decrease in Upjohn Revenues : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 LOE generally pertains to period-over-period revenue impacts for products across our portfolios experiencing patent expirations or loss of regulatory exclusivity in certain developed markets. 
 
 The following provides an analysis of the decrease in worldwide Upjohn Revenues : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Upjohn Revenues , 2018 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 12,484 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Operational growth/(decline): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Lower worldwide revenues for Lyrica, primarily in the U.S., reflecting the expected significantly lower volumes associated with multi-source generic competition that began in July 2019 
 
 
 
 (1,628 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Lower revenues for Viagra and Upjohn's authorized generic for Viagra in the U.S. resulting from increased generic competition following Viagra's December 2017 patent expiration, partially offset by increased retail demand growth in China 
 
 
 
 (171 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Decline in revenues for Revatio driven by lower U.S. Oral Suspension formulation sales and pricing pressures due to a recent generic entry, and for Relpax, driven by continued generic competition across developed markets 
 
 
 
 (149 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Decline in Norvasc and Lipitor due to pricing pressures from the implementation of the VBP in certain cities in China and lower volumes in Japan, partially offset by overall increased demand in China in the first quarter of 2019 and continued geographic expansion in China during the second half of 2019 in provinces where the VBP had not yet been implemented 
 
 
 
 (40 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Volume-driven growth from Celebrex and Effexor, primarily in Japan and China 
 
 
 
 78 
 
 
 
 
 Other operational factors, net 
 
 
 
 (92 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Operational decline, net 
 
 
 
 (2,002 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Unfavorable impact of foreign exchange 
 
 
 
 (249 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Upjohn Revenues decrease 
 
 
 
 (2,251 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Upjohn Revenues , 2019 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 10,233 
 
 
 Total Upjohn revenues from emerging markets decrease d $128 million , or 3% , to $3.9 billion in 2019 from $4.0 billion in 2018 , reflecting 1% operational growth more than offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of 5% on total Upjohn revenues from emerging markets. The operational increase in emerging markets was primarily driven by Zoloft, Viagra, Celebrex and Lipitor. 
 Costs and Expenses 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Cost of sales as a percentage of Revenues increase d 1.1 percentage points, driven by lower Lyrica revenues in developed markets, primarily in the U.S. due to multi-source generic competition that began in July 2019, partially offset by lower royalty expense for Lyrica due to the patent expiration. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The decrease in Cost of sales of 12% was mainly driven by lower royalty expense due to the Lyrica patent expiration and multi-source generic competition that began in July 2019, as well as a favorable impact of foreign exchange. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses decrease d 11% driven by a reduction in field force expense as well as advertising and promotion expenses in developed markets, primarily related to Lyrica in the U.S., as well as a favorable impact of foreign exchange, partially offset by the non-recurrence of one-time general and administrative expense reversals in the second and third quarters of 2018, and investments in China across key brands . 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Research and development expenses and Other (income)/deductions––net were relatively unchanged. 
 2018 vs. 2017 
 Upjohn Revenues decrease d $963 million , or 7% , to $12.5 billion in 2018 from $13.4 billion in 2017 , reflecting an operational decrease of $1.1 billion , or 8% , and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $116 million , or 1% . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 46 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following graph illustrates the components of the net decrease in Upjohn Revenues : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 LOE generally pertains to period-over-period revenue impacts for products across our portfolios experiencing patent expirations or loss of regulatory exclusivity in certain developed markets. 
 The following provides an analysis of the decrease in Upjohn Revenues : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Upjohn Revenues , 2017 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 13,447 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Operational growth/(decline): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Lower revenues for Viagra in the U.S. resulting from the loss of exclusivity in December 2017 
 
 
 
 (572 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Decline in Greenstone, Upjohn's solid oral dose generics subsidiary, due to additional generic competition in the U.S. and decline in Relpax, primarily due to loss of exclusivity in the U.S. 
 
 
 
 (318 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Decline in revenues for Lyrica, primarily driven by losses of exclusivity in developed Europe markets and Australia, partially offset by growth in the U.S. and growth in the orally dissolving tablet formulation in Japan 
 
 
 
 (115 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Decline in revenues for Celebrex, primarily driven by the non-recurrence of favorable U.S. rebates that occurred in 2017 and lower volumes in the U.S. 
 
 
 
 (99 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Higher revenues for Lipitor and Norvasc primarily due to increased demand in China, partially offset by pricing pressures in China and lower volumes in Japan for Lipitor and Norvasc and the non-recurrence of favorable U.S. rebates for Lipitor that occurred in 2017 
 
 
 
 182 
 
 
 
 
 Other operational factors, net 
 
 
 
 (158 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Operational decline, net 
 
 
 
 (1,079 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Favorable impact of foreign exchange 
 
 
 
 116 
 
 
 
 
 Upjohn Revenues decrease 
 
 
 
 (963 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Upjohn Revenues, 2018 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 12,484 
 
 
 Total Upjohn revenues from emerging markets increase d $352 million , or 10% , to $4.0 billion in 2018 from $3.7 billion in 2017 , reflecting a 9% operational increase . Foreign exchange had a favorable impact of 1% . The operational increase in emerging markets was primarily driven by Lipitor and Norvasc growth in China. 
 Costs and Expenses 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Cost of sales as a percentage of Revenues increase d 1.5 percentage points driven by lower revenues for Viagra in the U.S. resulting from the loss of exclusivity in December 2017, as well as increased manufacturing plant costs in Puerto Rico due to hurricane-related recovery expenses, partially offset by a favorable impact of foreign exchange. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The increase in Cost of sales of 2% was mostly driven by higher sales volume of Lyrica in the U.S. and Japan, as well as key products in China, partially offset by a favorable impact of foreign exchange. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses decrease d 13% , primarily driven by a reduction in field force expense as well as advertising and promotion expenses in developed markets, mainly related to Viagra and Lyrica in the U.S., as well as one-time general and administrative expense reversals in the second and third quarters of 2018, partially offset by additional investments in China across key brands. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Research and development expenses decrease d 15% mostly due to decreased spending for post-approval commitment activities for Lyrica and Celebrex. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Other (income)/deductions––net were relatively unchanged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 47 
 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ANALYSIS OF THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 19/18 
 
 
 
 
 
 18/17 
 
 
 
 
 Cash provided by/(used in): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Operating activities 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 12,588 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 15,827 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 16,802 
 
 
 
 
 
 (20 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (6 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Investing activities 
 
 
 
 (3,945 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 4,525 
 
 
 
 
 
 (4,740 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 Financing activities 
 
 
 
 (8,485 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (20,441 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (13,350 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (58 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 53 
 
 
 
 
 Effect of exchange-rate changes on cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash and cash equivalents 
 
 
 
 (32 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (116 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 53 
 
 
 
 
 
 (73 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 Net increase/(decrease) in Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash and cash equivalents 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 125 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (205 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (1,235 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 (83 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 Indicates calculation not meaningful or result is equal to or greater than 100%. 
 
 In the consolidated statements of cash flows, the line ITEM, Other changes in assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions and divestitures , is presented excluding the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, as these changes do not reflect actual cash inflows or outflows, and excluding any other significant non-cash movements. Accordingly, the amounts shown will not necessarily agree with the changes in the assets and liabilities that are presented in our consolidated balance sheets. 
 
 Operating Activities 
 
 2019 v. 2018 
 
 Our net cash provided by operating activities was $12.6 billion in 2019 , compared to $15.8 billion in 2018 . The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities reflects the timing of receipts from customers and payments to vendors in the ordinary course of business, the upfront cash payment associated with our acquisition of Therachon, and the upfront cash payment associated with our licensing agreement with Akcea (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ––Note 2A. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Equity-Method Investments and Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Arrangements and Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements : Acquisitions ), partially offset by an increase in net income and a decrease in benefit plan contributions. 
 In 2019 , the change in the line ITEM Other adjustments, net primarily reflects, among other items: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the non-recurrence of a non-cash gain associated with our transaction with Bain Capital to create a new biopharmaceutical company, Cerevel, to continue development of a portfolio of clinical and pre-clinical stage neuroscience assets in 2018 (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements –– Note 2 A . Acquisitions, Divestitures, Equity-Method Investments and Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Arrangements and Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements : Acquisitions ); and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the non-recurrence of a non-cash gain on the contribution of Pfizer’s allogeneic CAR T developmental program assets, in connection with our contribution agreement with Allogene in 2018 (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements –– Note 2 B . Acquisitions, Divestitures, Equity-Method Investments and Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Arrangements and Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements : Divestitures ), 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 net gains on foreign exchange contracts hedging a portion of our forecasted intercompany inventory sales (that fixes the cost of inventory sold later to customers). 
 In 2019 and 2018 , the line ITEM Other changes in assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions and divestitures, primarily reflects changes, in the normal course of business, in trade accounts receivable, inventories, other current assets, other noncurrent assets, trade accounts payable, accrued compensation, other current and noncurrent liabilities, as well as in 2019, the adjustment necessary to reflect the non-cash nature of a favorable settlement of a U.S. IRS audit for multiple tax years (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ––Note 5A. Tax Matters: Taxes on Income from Continuing Operations ). 
 2018 v. 2017 
 
 Our net cash provided by operating activities was $15.8 billion in 2018 , compared to $16.8 billion in 2017. The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities reflects a decrease in net cash generated from net income. The net cash generated reflects the timing of receipts from customers and payments to vendors in the ordinary course of business. 
 In 2018 , the change in the line ITEM Other adjustments, net primarily reflects, among other items: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the non-recurrence of a non-cash net loss on early retirement of debt under an exchange offer in 2017; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 unrealized net gains on equity securities resulting from the adoption of a new accounting standard on January 1, 2018, related to the recognition and measurement of financial assets and liabilities; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 a decrease in debt extinguishment costs in 2018 related to early retirement of debt under an exchange offer in 2017, which had been reclassified from operating to financing activities in 2018 and 2017 in accordance with our implementation of a new accounting standard on January 1, 2018 related to the classification of debt prepayment and extinguishment costs; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 a non-cash gain associated with our transaction with Bain Capital to create a new biopharmaceutical company to continue development of a portfolio of clinical and preclinical stage neuroscience assets (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 2B. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Equity-Method Investments and Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Arrangements and Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements : Divestitures ); and 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 48 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 a non-cash gain on the contribution of Pfizer’s allogeneic CAR T developmental program assets, in connection with our contribution agreement with Allogene (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 2B. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Equity-Method Investments and Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Arrangements and Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements : Divestitures ), 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 decreases in net realized gains on sales of investments in debt and equity securities; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 net losses on foreign exchange contracts hedging a portion of our forecasted intercompany inventory sales (that fixes the cost of inventory later sold to customers); and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 a decrease in gains on the sale of property, plant and equipment. 
 In 2018 and 2017 , the line ITEM Other changes in assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions and divestitures, primarily reflects changes, in the normal course of business, in trade accounts receivable, inventories, other current assets, other noncurrent assets, trade accounts payable, accrued compensation and other current and noncurrent liabilities. 
 Investing Activities 
 
 2019 v. 2018 
 
 Our net cash used in investing activities was $3.9 billion in 2019 , compared to net cash provided by investing activities of $4.5 billion in 2018 . The change in net cash used in/provided by investing activities was primarily attributable to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 cash used for the acquisition of Array, net of cash acquired, of $10.9 billion in 2019, 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 an increase in net proceeds generated from the sale of investments of $2.9 billion for cash needs, including financing the acquisition of Array (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements –– Note 2A. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Equity-Method Investments and Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Arrangements and Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements: Acquisitions ). 
 2018 v. 2017 
 
 Our net cash provided by investing activities was $4.5 billion in 2018 , compared to net cash used in investing activities of $4.7 billion in 2017 . The change in net cash provided by/(used in) investing activities was primarily attributable to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 an increase in net proceeds generated from the sale of investments of $8.6 billion in 2018 for cash needs; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 a decrease in cash used for acquisitions, net of cash acquired of $1.0 billion due to the acquisition of the development and commercialization rights to AstraZeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business and substantially all of the remaining consideration for the Medivation acquisition in 2017 (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 2A. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Equity-Method Investments and Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Arrangements and Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements: Acquisitions ) . 
 Financing Activities 
 
 2019 v. 2018 
 Our net cash used in financing activities was $8.5 billion in 2019 , compared to $20.4 billion in 2018 . The decrease in net cash used in financing activities was primarily attributable to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 $10.6 billion net proceeds raised from short-term borrowings in 2019 , primarily in connection with the acquisition of Array, compared to net payments on short-term borrowings of $2.3 billion in 2018 ; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 lower purchases of common stock of $3.3 billion , 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 higher repayments on long-term debt of $3.2 billion ; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 lower proceeds from the exercise of stock options of $864 million . 
 2018 v. 2017 
 Our net cash used in financing activities was $20.4 billion in 2018 , compared to $13.3 billion in 2017 . The increase in net cash used in financing activities was primarily attributable to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 $2.3 billion less proceeds raised from short-term borrowings in 2018 , compared to 2017 ; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 higher purchases of common stock of $7.2 billion , 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 lower repayments on long-term debt of $2.6 billion . 
 
 ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 
 
 We rely largely on operating cash flows, short-term investments, short-term commercial paper borrowings and long-term debt to provide for our liquidity requirements. We continue our efforts to improve cash inflows through working capital efficiencies. We target specific areas of focus including accounts receivable, inventories, accounts payable, and other working capital, which allows us to optimize our operating cash flows. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 49 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Due to our significant operating cash flows as well as our financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we believe that we have, and will maintain, the ability to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future, which include: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the working capital requirements of our operations, including our R&D activities; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 investments in our business; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 dividend payments and potential increases in the dividend rate; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 share repurchases; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the cash requirements associated with our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 paying down outstanding debt; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 contributions to our pension and postretirement plans; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 business-development activities. 
 Our long-term debt is rated high-quality by both S&P and Moody’s. See the “Credit Ratings” section below. As market conditions change, we continue to monitor our liquidity position. We have taken and will continue to take a conservative approach to our financial investments. Both short-term and long-term investments consist primarily of high-quality, highly liquid, well-diversified available-for-sale debt securities. 
 
 Selected Measures of Liquidity and Capital Resources 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following table provides certain relevant measures of our liquidity and capital resources: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 As of December 31, 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS, EXCEPT RATIOS AND PER COMMON SHARE DATA) 
 
 
 
 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 Selected financial assets (a) : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Cash and cash equivalents 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,305 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,139 
 
 
 
 
 Short-term investments 
 
 
 
 8,525 
 
 
 
 
 
 17,694 
 
 
 
 
 Long-term investments, excluding private equity securities at cost 
 
 
 
 2,258 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,823 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 12,088 
 
 
 
 
 
 20,656 
 
 
 
 
 Debt: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Short-term borrowings, including current portion of long-term debt 
 
 
 
 16,195 
 
 
 
 
 
 8,831 
 
 
 
 
 Long-term debt 
 
 
 
 35,955 
 
 
 
 
 
 32,909 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 52,150 
 
 
 
 
 
 41,740 
 
 
 
 
 Selected net financial liabilities (b) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (40,062 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (21,084 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Working capital (c) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (4,501 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 18,068 
 
 
 
 
 Ratio of current assets to current liabilities 
 
 
 
 0.88:1 
 
 
 
 
 
 1.57:1 
 
 
 
 
 Total Pfizer Inc. shareholders’ equity per common share (d) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 11.41 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 11.09 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 7. Financial Instruments for a description of certain assets held and for a description of credit risk related to our financial instruments held. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 The increase in selected net financial liabilities was primarily driven by a decrease in short-term investments and net increase in short-term debt, mainly as a result of cash paid for the acquisition of Array (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements –– Note 2A. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Equity-Method Investments and Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Arrangements and Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements: Acquisitions ). We retain a strong financial liquidity position as a result of our net cash provided by operating activities, our high-quality financial asset portfolio and access to capital markets. For additional information, see the “Credit Ratings” section of this Financial Review. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 The decrease in working capital was primarily due to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 financing requirements for the acquisition of Array, share repurchase activities, dividend payments, capital expenditures and debt repayment, partially offset by operating cash flow generation, cash from employee stock option exercises and the March 2019 long-term debt issuance discussed below; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the impact of the deconsolidation of the Consumer Healthcare business as a result of the completion of the joint venture transaction; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the net impact of foreign currency exchange, 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the timing of accruals, cash receipts and payments in the ordinary course of business; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 an increase in inventory for certain products, including inventory build for new product launches, supply recovery, and market demand, partially offset by a charge related to rivipansel, primarily for inventory manufactured for expected future sale (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 2E. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Equity-Method Investments and Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Arrangements and Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements : Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements for additional information). 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) 
 
 Represents total Pfizer Inc. shareholders’ equity divided by the actual number of common shares outstanding (which excludes treasury stock). 
 
 On February 11, 2020, we issued a notice for the redemption in full of all $1.065 billion principal amount of senior unsecured notes due 2047. The notes will be redeemed on March 17, 2020 at par as set forth in the indenture agreement. We do not expect this redemption to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
 
 In March 2019, we completed a public offering of $5.0 billion aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes with a weighted average effective interest rate of 3.57% (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements––Note 7D. Financial Instruments : Long-Term Debt ). 
 For additional information about the sources and uses of our funds, see the “ Analysis of the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows ” section of this Financial Review. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 50 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Domestic and International Selected Financial Assets 
 
 Many of our operations are conducted outside the U.S., and significant portions of our selected financial assets are held internationally. The amount of funds held in U.S. tax jurisdictions can fluctuate due to the timing of receipts and payments in the ordinary course of business and due to other reasons, such as business-development activities. As part of our ongoing liquidity assessments, we regularly monitor the mix of domestic and international cash flows (both inflows and outflows). The changes in tax law under the TCJA, which includes transitioning U.S. international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a territorial tax system, will also allow us to more easily access our selected financial assets globally. The majority of our cash we held internationally as of year-end 2017 was repatriated in 2018. 
 Agreement to Combine Upjohn with Mylan 
 In connection with the recently-announced agreement to combine Upjohn with Mylan discussed in the “Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook––Our Business Development Initiatives” section of this Financial Review, Upjohn will incur approximately $12 billion of debt prior to the closing of the transaction. Immediately prior to the separation, Upjohn will make a cash distribution of $12 billion to Pfizer, which will be funded by the proceeds of such debt. Following the separation, Upjohn will remain the obligor with respect to the debt. 
 
 Credit Ratings 
 
 Two major corporate debt-rating organizations, Moody’s and S&P, assign ratings to our short-term and long-term debt. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and the rating is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating organization. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. 
 In June 2019, S&P placed Pfizer on “CreditWatch Negative” following the announcement of Pfizer’s intention to acquire Array. The CreditWatch placement was resolved with a one-notch downgrade of Pfizer’s debt rating to ‘AA-’ upon the consummation of the transaction. In July 2019, we announced that we entered into a definitive agreement to combine Upjohn with Mylan, which resulted in actions from both Moody’s and S&P. Moody’s placed Pfizer’s long-term rating under review for downgrade (limited to one-notch, or ‘A2’ upon close of the Mylan transaction) while S&P lowered Pfizer’s rating to ‘AA-’ (as a result of the Array transaction) and confirmed it will still remain on CreditWatch Negative (with the expectation the rating will be lowered one additional notch to ‘A+’ upon close of the Mylan transaction). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following table provides the current ratings assigned by these rating agencies to our commercial paper and senior unsecured long-term debt: 
 
 
 NAME OF RATING AGENCY 
 
 
 
 Pfizer 
 Commercial Paper 
 
 
 
 Pfizer 
 Long-Term Debt 
 
 
 
 Outlook 
 
 
 
 Date of Last Rating Change 
 
 
 
 
 Rating 
 
 
 
 Rating 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Moody’s 
 
 
 
 P-1 
 
 
 
 A1 
 
 
 
 Under Review for Downgrade 
 
 
 
 October 2009 
 
 
 S&P 
 
 
 
 A-1+ 
 
 
 
 AA- 
 
 
 
 CreditWatch Negative 
 
 
 
 July 2019 
 
 Debt Capacity––Lines of Credit 
 
 We have available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements with a group of banks and other financial intermediaries. We typically maintain cash and cash equivalent balances and short-term investments which, together with our available revolving credit facilities, are in excess of our commercial paper and other short-term borrowings. As of December 31, 2019 , we had access to a total of $15 billion in U.S. revolving credit facilities consisting of a $7 billion facility expiring in 2024 and an $8 billion facility expiring in September 2020, which may be used to support our commercial paper borrowings. In addition to the U.S. revolving credit facilities, our lenders have provided us an additional $537 million in lines of credit, of which $508 million expire within one year. Of these total lines of credit, $15.5 billion were unused on December 31, 2019 . In connection with the recently-announced agreement to combine Upjohn with Mylan discussed in the “Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook––Our Business Development Initiatives” section of this Financial Review, Upjohn entered into a fully underwritten, 364-day senior unsecured bridge facility for up to $12 billion. This bridge facility is expected to terminate upon the issuance of approximately $12 billion of debt securities, loans or a combination of the two by Upjohn prior to the transaction close. 
 
 LIBOR 
 
 From time to time, we issue variable rate debt based on LIBOR, or undertake interest rate swaps that contain a variable element based on LIBOR. The U.K. Financial Conduct Authority announced in July 2017 that it will no longer compel banks to submit rates that are currently used to calculate LIBOR after 2021. Various governing parties, including government agencies, are working on a benchmark transition plan for LIBOR (and other interbank offered rates globally). We are monitoring their progress, and we will likely amend contracts to accommodate any replacement rate where it is not already provided. We do not expect the transition to an alternative rate to have a material impact on our liquidity or financial resources. 
 
 Global Economic Conditions––General 
 
 The global economic environment has not had, nor do we anticipate it will have, a material impact on our liquidity or capital resources. Due to our significant operating cash flows, financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we continue to believe that we have, and will maintain, the ability to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future. We monitor our liquidity position continuously in the face of evolving economic conditions. For additional information see the “Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook––The Global Economic Environment” section in this Financial Review. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 51 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Global Economic Conditions––Venezuela Operations and Argentina Operations 
 
 Our Venezuela and Argentina operations function in hyperinflationary economies. The impact to Pfizer is not considered material. 
 Contractual Obligations 
 
 Payments due under contractual obligations as of December 31, 2019 , mature as follows: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Years 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 
 
 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 2021-2022 
 
 
 
 
 
 2023-2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 Thereafter 
 
 
 
 
 Long-term debt, including current portion (a) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 37,417 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,462 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 4,769 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 5,274 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 25,912 
 
 
 
 
 Interest payments on long-term debt obligations (b) 
 
 
 
 21,612 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,403 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,701 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,436 
 
 
 
 
 
 15,073 
 
 
 
 
 Other long-term liabilities (c) 
 
 
 
 2,521 
 
 
 
 
 
 427 
 
 
 
 
 
 534 
 
 
 
 
 
 483 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,078 
 
 
 
 
 Operating leases (d) 
 
 
 
 3,280 
 
 
 
 
 
 323 
 
 
 
 
 
 512 
 
 
 
 
 
 433 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,012 
 
 
 
 
 Purchase obligations and other (e) 
 
 
 
 2,534 
 
 
 
 
 
 711 
 
 
 
 
 
 994 
 
 
 
 
 
 485 
 
 
 
 
 
 344 
 
 
 
 
 Other taxes payable — deemed repatriated accumulated post-1986 earnings of foreign subsidiaries (f) 
 
 
 
 9,650 
 
 
 
 
 
 600 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,700 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,400 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,950 
 
 
 
 
 Uncertain tax positions (g) 
 
 
 
 130 
 
 
 
 
 
 130 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 Long-term debt consists of senior unsecured notes (including fixed and floating rate, foreign currency denominated, and other notes), carried at historical proceeds, as adjusted (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 7. Financial Instruments ). Commitments under financing leases are not significant. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 Our calculations of expected interest payments incorporate only current period assumptions for interest rates, foreign currency translation rates and hedging strategies (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 7. Financial Instruments ), and assume that interest is accrued through the maturity date or expiration of the related instrument. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 Includes expected payments relating to our unfunded U.S. supplemental (non-qualified) pension plans, postretirement plans and deferred compensation plans. Excludes amounts relating to our U.S. qualified pension plans and international pension plans, all of which have a substantial amount of plan assets, because the required funding obligations are not expected to be material and/or because such liabilities do not necessarily reflect future cash payments, as the impact of changes in economic conditions on the fair value of the pension plan assets and/or liabilities can be significant. Also, excludes $3.9 billion of liabilities related to the fair value of derivative financial instruments, legal matters and employee terminations, among other liabilities, most of which do not represent contractual obligations. See also our liquidity discussion above in this “Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources” section, as well as the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 3. Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives, Note 7A. Financial Instruments: Fair Value Measurements, Note 11E. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans and Defined Contribution Plans: Cash Flows, and Note 16. Contingencies and Certain Commitments . 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) 
 
 Includes future minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases. These amounts include an agreement we entered in April 2018 to lease space in an office building in New York City. We expect to take control of the property in 2021 and relocate our global headquarters to this new office building in 2022. Our future minimum rental commitment under this 20-year lease is approximately $1.7 billion . 
 
 
 
 
 
 (e) 
 
 Includes agreements to purchase goods and services that are enforceable and legally binding and includes amounts relating to advertising, information technology services, employee benefit administration services, and potential milestone payments deemed reasonably likely to occur. Also includes obligations to make guaranteed fixed annual payments over the next 7 years in connection with the U.S. and EU approvals for Besponsa ( $412 million ) and an obligation to make guaranteed fixed annual payments over the next 8 years for Bosulif ( $217 million ), both associated with R&D arrangements. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 7E. Financial Instruments: Other Noncurrent Liabilities and — Note 16C. Contingencies and Certain Commitments : Certain Commitments . 
 
 
 
 
 
 (f) 
 
 Represents estimated cash payments related to the TCJA repatriation tax for which we elected with the filing of our 2018 U.S. Federal Consolidated Income Tax Return to pay in annual installments over eight years through 2026 (with the next installment due in April 2020). Our obligations may vary as a result of changes in our uncertain tax positions and/or availability of attributes such as foreign tax and other credit carryforwards. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 5A. Tax Matters: Taxes on Income from Continuing Operations and Note 5C. Tax Matters: Deferred Taxes. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (g) 
 
 Includes only income tax amounts currently payable. We are unable to predict the timing of tax settlements related to our noncurrent obligations for uncertain tax positions as tax audits can involve complex issues and the resolution of those issues may span multiple years, particularly if subject to negotiation or litigation. 
 The above table includes amounts for potential milestone payments under collaboration, licensing or other arrangements, if the payments are deemed reasonably likely to occur. Payments under these agreements generally become due and payable only upon the achievement of certain development, regulatory and/or commercialization milestones, which may span several years and which may never occur. 
 
 In 2020 , we expect to spend approximately $2.4 billion on property, plant and equipment. We rely largely on operating cash flows to fund our capital investment needs. Due to our significant operating cash flows, we believe we have the ability to meet our capital investment needs and anticipate no delays to planned capital expenditures. 
 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 
 
 In the ordinary course of business and in connection with the sale of assets and businesses and other transactions, we often indemnify our counterparties against certain liabilities that may arise in connection with a transaction or that are related to events and activities prior to or following a transaction. If the indemnified party were to make a successful claim pursuant to the terms of the indemnification, we may be required to reimburse the loss. These indemnification obligations generally are subject to various restrictions and limitations. Historically, we have not paid significant amounts under these provisions and, as of December 31, 2019 , the estimated fair value of our indemnification obligations was not significant. 
 Certain of our co-promotion or license agreements give our licensors or partners the rights to negotiate for, or in some cases to obtain under certain financial conditions, co-promotion or other rights in specified countries with respect to certain of our products. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 52 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Share-Purchase Plans and Accelerated Share Repurchase Agreements 
 
 See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 12. Equity for information on the shares of our common stock purchased and the cost of purchases under our publicly announced share-purchase plans, including our accelerated share repurchase agreements. At December 31, 2019 , our remaining share-purchase authorization was approximately $5.3 billion , with no repurchases currently planned in 2020. 
 Dividends on Common Stock 
 
 We paid dividends on our common stock of $8.0 billion in 2019 , $8.0 billion in 2018 and $7.7 billion in 2017 . In December 2019 , our Board of Directors declared a first-quarter 2020 dividend of $0.38 per share, payable on March 6, 2020 , to shareholders of record at the close of business on January 31, 2020 . The first-quarter 2020 cash dividend will be our 325 th consecutive quarterly dividend. 
 
 Our current and projected dividends provide a return to shareholders while maintaining sufficient capital to invest in growing our businesses. Our dividends are not restricted by debt covenants. While the dividend level remains a decision of Pfizer’s Board of Directors and will continue to be evaluated in the context of future business performance, we currently believe that we can support future annual dividend increases, barring significant unforeseen events. Pfizer also expects that immediately following the closing of the proposed transaction to combine Upjohn with Mylan, the combined dividend dollar amount received by Pfizer shareholders in the event the equity distribution is structured as a spinoff, based upon the combination of continued Pfizer ownership and an expected 0.12 shares of the new company granted for each Pfizer share, will equate to Pfizer’s dividend amount in effect immediately prior to closing. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 53 
 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS 
 Recently Adopted Accounting Standards 
 See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 1B. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies: Adoption of New Accounting Standards in 2019 . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Recently Issued Accounting Standards, Not Adopted as of December 31, 2019 
 
 
 Standard/Description 
 
 
 
 Effective Date 
 
 
 
 Effect on the Financial Statements or Other Significant Matters 
 
 
 In June 2016, the FASB issued new guidance on accounting for credit losses of financial instruments . The new guidance and related amendments replace the probable initial recognition threshold for incurred loss estimates in current GAAP with a methodology that reflects expected credit loss estimates. 
 
 
 
 January 1, 2020. 
 
 
 
 This standard includes our financial instruments, such as accounts receivable, and investments that are generally of high credit quality. 
 Previously, when credit losses were measured under GAAP, an entity generally only considered past events and current conditions in measuring the incurred loss. 
 The new guidance requires us to identify, analyze, document and support new methodologies for quantifying expected credit loss estimates for our financial instruments, using information such as historical experience and current economic conditions, plus the use of reasonable supportable forecast information. We do not expect this new guidance to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
 
 
 In January 2017, the FASB issued new guidance for goodwill impairment testing . The new guidance eliminates the requirement to perform a hypothetical purchase price allocation to measure goodwill impairment. Under the new guidance the goodwill impairment test is performed by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, and recognizing an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, although it cannot exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. 
 
 
 
 January 1, 2020. 
 
 
 
 We do not expect this new guidance to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
 
 
 In August 2018, the FASB issued new guidance related to customers’ accounting for implementation costs incurred in a cloud computing arrangement that is considered a service contract . The new guidance aligns the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs in such arrangements with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software. The new guidance can be adopted either prospectively or retrospectively. 
 
 
 
 January 1, 2020. 
 
 
 
 We do not expect this new guidance to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
 
 
 In November 2018, the FASB issued new guidance clarifying the interaction between the accounting guidance for collaboration agreements and revenue from contracts with customers . 
 
 
 
 January 1, 2020. 
 
 
 
 We do not expect this new guidance to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
 
 
 In December 2019, the FASB issued new guidance that simplifies the accounting for income taxes by eliminating certain exceptions to the guidance related to the approach for intraperiod tax allocation, the methodology for calculating income taxes in an interim period and the recognition of deferred tax liabilities for outside basis differences. The new guidance also simplifies aspects of the accounting for franchise taxes and enacted changes in tax laws or rates and clarifies the accounting for transactions that result in a step-up in the tax basis of goodwill. 
 
 
 
 January 1, 2021. Early adoption is permitted. 
 
 
 
 We are assessing the impact of the provisions of this new guidance on our consolidated financial statements. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 54 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION AND FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS 
 
 This report and other written or oral statements that we make from time to time contain forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements involve substantial risks and uncertainties. We have tried, wherever possible, to identify such statements by using words such as “will,” “may,” “could,” “likely,” “ongoing,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “project,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “assume,” “target,” “forecast,” “guidance,” “goal,” “objective,” “aim,” “seek” and other words and terms of similar meaning or by using future dates in connection with any discussion of, among other things, our anticipated operating and financial performance, business plans and prospects, expectations for our product pipeline, in-line products and product candidates, including anticipated regulatory submissions, data read-outs, study starts, approvals, revenue contribution, growth, performance, timing of exclusivity and potential benefits, strategic reviews, capital allocation objectives, plans for and prospects of our acquisitions and other business-development activities, benefits anticipated from the reorganization of our commercial operations in 2019, sales efforts, expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, government regulation, our ability to successfully capitalize on growth opportunities or prospects, manufacturing and product supply and plans relating to share repurchases and dividends. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, including, among others, the expected timing, benefits, charges and/or costs in connection with our agreement to combine Upjohn with Mylan to create a new global pharmaceutical company, Viatris, set forth in the “Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook––Our Business Development Initiatives” and “––Our Strategy” sections and the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 1A. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies––Basis of Presentation of this Financial Review, the expected impact of patent expiries on our business set forth in the “Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook––Our Operating Environment––Industry-Specific Challenges––Intellectual Property Rights and Collaboration/Licensing Rights” section of this Financial Review, the benefits expected from the reorganization of our commercial operations in 2019 and our expectations regarding growth set forth in the “Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook––Our Strategy––Organizing for Growth” section of this Financial Review, the anticipated costs related to our preparations for Brexit set forth in the “Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook––The Global Economic Environment” section of this Financial Review, our anticipated liquidity position set forth in the “Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook––The Global Economic Environment” and the “Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources” sections of this Financial Review, the anticipated costs and savings from certain of our initiatives, including the Transforming to a More Focused Company initiative, set forth in the “ Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook —Transforming to a More Focused Company” and “ Costs and Expenses — Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives ” sections of this Financial Review and in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 3 . Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives , our plans for increasing investment in the U.S. set forth in the “Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook––Our Strategy––Capital Allocation and Expense Management––Increasing Investment in the U.S.” section of this Financial Review, the financial guidance set forth in the “Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook––Our Financial Guidance for 2020 ” section of this Financial Review, the expected impact of ACIP’s recommendation for Prevnar 13 for adults 65 and older on Prevnar 13’s revenues set forth in the “Analysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income––Revenues––Selected Product Discussion––Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13 (Biopharma)” section of this Financial Review, the expected impact of updates to the prescribing information for Xeljanz on its growth set forth in the “Analysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income––Revenues––Selected Product Discussion––Xeljanz (Biopharma)” section of this Financial Review, the benefits expected from our business development transactions, the planned capital spending set forth in the “Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources––Selected Measures of Liquidity and Capital Resources––Contractual Obligations” section of this Financial Review, the expected payments to our unfunded U.S. supplemental (non-qualified) pension plans, postretirement plans and deferred compensation plans and expected funding obligations set forth in the “Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources––Selected Measures of Liquidity and Capital Resources––Contractual Obligations” section of this Financial Review, and the voluntary contribution we expect to make during 2020 for the U.S. qualified plans set forth in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 11. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans and Defined Contribution Plans . Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from past results and future plans and projected future results are the following: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the outcome of R&D activities, including, without limitation, the ability to meet anticipated pre-clinical or clinical endpoints, commencement and/or completion dates for our pre-clinical or clinical trials, regulatory submission dates, regulatory approval dates and/or launch dates, as well as the possibility of unfavorable pre-clinical and clinical trial results, including the possibility of unfavorable new clinical data and further analyses of existing clinical data; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the risk we may not be able to successfully address all of the comments received from regulatory authorities such as the FDA or the EMA, or obtain approval from regulators, which will depend on myriad factors, including such regulator making a determination as to whether a product’s benefits outweigh its known risks and a determination of the product’s efficacy; regulatory decisions impacting labeling, manufacturing processes, safety and/or other matters; and recommendations by technical or advisory committees, such as ACIP, that may impact the use of our vaccines; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the speed with which regulatory authorizations, pricing approvals and product launches may be achieved; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 claims and concerns that may arise regarding the safety or efficacy of in-line products and product candidates, including claims and concerns that may arise from the outcome of post-approval clinical trials, which could result in the loss of marketing approval, changes in product labeling, and/or new or increased concerns about the side effects or efficacy of, a product that could affect its availability or commercial potential, such as the update to the U.S. and EU prescribing information for Xeljanz; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the success of external business-development activities, including the ability to identify and execute on potential business development opportunities, the ability to satisfy the conditions to closing of announced transactions in the anticipated time frame or at all, the ability to realize the anticipated benefits of any such transactions, and the potential need to obtain additional equity or debt financing to pursue these opportunities, which could result in increased leverage and impact our credit ratings; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 competitive developments, including the impact on our competitive position of new product entrants, in-line branded products, generic products, private label products, biosimilars and product candidates that treat diseases and conditions similar to those treated by our in-line drugs and drug candidates; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 55 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the implementation by the FDA and regulatory authorities in certain countries of an abbreviated legal pathway to approve biosimilar products, which could subject our biologic products to competition from biosimilar products, with attendant competitive pressures, after the expiration of any applicable exclusivity period and patent rights; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 risks related to our ability to develop and commercialize biosimilars, including risks associated with “at risk” launches, defined as the marketing of a product by Pfizer before the final resolution of litigation (including any appeals) brought by a third party alleging that such marketing would infringe one or more patents owned or controlled by the third party, and access challenges for our biosimilar products where our product may not receive appropriate formulary access or remains in a disadvantaged position relative to the innovator product; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the ability to meet competition from generic, branded and biosimilar products after the loss or expiration of patent protection for our products or competitor products; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the ability to successfully market both new and existing products domestically and internationally; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 difficulties or delays in manufacturing, sales or marketing, including delays caused by natural events, such as hurricanes; supply disruptions, shortages or stock-outs at our facilities; and legal or regulatory actions, such as warning letters, suspension of manufacturing, seizure of product, injunctions, debarment, recall of a product, delays or denials of product approvals, import bans or denial of import certifications; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the impact of public health epidemics or outbreaks on our operations (such as the novel strain of coronavirus impacting China and several other countries); 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 trade buying patterns; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the impact of existing and future legislation and regulatory provisions on product exclusivity; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 trends toward managed care and healthcare cost containment, and our ability to obtain or maintain timely or adequate pricing or favorable formulary placement for our products; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the impact of any significant spending reductions or cost controls affecting Medicare, Medicaid or other publicly funded or subsidized health programs or changes in the tax treatment of employer-sponsored health insurance that may be implemented; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the impact of any U.S. healthcare reform or legislation, including any replacement, repeal, modification or invalidation of some or all of the provisions of the U.S. Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 U.S. federal or state legislation or regulatory action and/or policy efforts affecting, among other things, pharmaceutical product pricing, intellectual property, reimbursement or access, including under Medicaid, Medicare and other publicly funded or subsidized health programs; patient out-of-pocket costs for medicines, manufacturer prices and/or price increases that could result in new mandatory rebates and discounts or other pricing restrictions; general budget control actions; the importation of prescription drugs from outside the U.S. at prices that are regulated by governments of various foreign countries; revisions to reimbursement of biopharmaceuticals under government programs; restrictions on U.S. direct-to-consumer advertising; limitations on interactions with healthcare professionals; or the use of comparative effectiveness methodologies that could be implemented in a manner that focuses primarily on the cost differences and minimizes the therapeutic differences among pharmaceutical products and restricts access to innovative medicines; as well as pricing pressures for our products as a result of highly competitive insurance markets; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 legislation or regulatory action in markets outside the U.S., including China, affecting pharmaceutical product pricing, intellectual property, reimbursement or access, including, in particular, continued government-mandated reductions in prices and access restrictions for certain biopharmaceutical products to control costs in those markets; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the exposure of our operations outside the U.S. to possible capital and exchange controls, economic conditions, expropriation and other restrictive government actions, changes in intellectual property legal protections and remedies, as well as political unrest, unstable governments and legal systems and inter-governmental disputes; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 contingencies related to actual or alleged environmental contamination; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 any significant breakdown, infiltration or interruption of our information technology systems and infrastructure; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 legal defense costs, insurance expenses and settlement costs; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the risk of an adverse decision or settlement and the adequacy of reserves related to legal proceedings, including patent litigation, such as claims that our patents are invalid and/or do not cover the product of the generic drug manufacturer or where one or more third parties seeks damages and/or injunctive relief to compensate for alleged infringement of its patents by our commercial or other activities, product liability and other product-related litigation, including personal injury, consumer, off-label promotion, securities, antitrust and breach of contract claims, commercial, environmental, government investigations, employment and other legal proceedings, including various means for resolving asbestos litigation, as well as tax issues; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the risk that our currently pending or future patent applications may not result in issued patents, or be granted on a timely basis, or any patent-term extensions that we seek may not be granted on a timely basis, if at all; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 our ability to protect our patents and other intellectual property, both domestically and internationally; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, including the impact of possible currency devaluations in countries experiencing high inflation rates; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 governmental laws and regulations affecting domestic and foreign operations, including, without limitation, tax obligations and changes affecting the tax treatment by the U.S. of income earned outside the U.S. that may result from pending and possible future proposals, including further clarifications and/or interpretations of or changes to the TCJA enacted in 2017; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 any significant issues involving our largest wholesale distributors, which account for a substantial portion of our revenues; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the possible impact of the increased presence of counterfeit medicines in the pharmaceutical supply chain on our revenues and on patient confidence in the integrity of our medicines; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 56 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 uncertainties based on the formal change in relationship between the U.K. government and the EU, which could have implications on our research, commercial and general business operations in the U.K. and the EU, including the approval and supply of our products; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 any significant issues that may arise related to the outsourcing of certain operational and staff functions to third parties, including with regard to quality, timeliness and compliance with applicable legal or regulatory requirements and industry standards; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 any significant issues that may arise related to our joint ventures and other third-party business arrangements; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 further clarifications and/or changes in interpretations of existing laws and regulations, or changes in laws and regulations, in the U.S. and other countries, including changes in U.S. generally accepted accounting principles; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 uncertainties related to general economic, political, business, industry, regulatory and market conditions including, without limitation, uncertainties related to the impact on us, our customers, suppliers and lenders and counterparties to our foreign-exchange and interest-rate agreements of challenging global economic conditions and recent and possible future changes in global financial markets; the related risk that our allowance for doubtful accounts may not be adequate; and the risks related to volatility of our income due to changes in the market value of equity investments; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 any changes in business, political and economic conditions due to actual or threatened terrorist activity in the U.S. and other parts of the world, and related U.S. military action overseas; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 growth in costs and expenses; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 changes in our product, segment and geographic mix; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the impact of purchase accounting adjustments, acquisition-related costs, discontinued operations and certain significant items; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the impact of product recalls, withdrawals and other unusual items; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the risk of an impairment charge related to our intangible assets, goodwill or equity-method investments; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the impact of, and risks and uncertainties related to, acquisitions and divestitures, such as the acquisition of Array, our transaction with GSK which combined our respective consumer healthcare businesses into a new consumer healthcare joint venture and our agreement to comb i ne Upjohn with Mylan to create a new global pharmaceutical company, Viatris, including, among other things, risks related to the satisfaction of the conditions to closing to any pending transaction (including the failure to obtain any necessary shareholder and regulatory approvals) in the anticipated timeframe or at all and the possibility that such transaction does not close; the ability to realize the anticipated benefits of those transactions, including the possibility that the expected cost savings and/or accretion from certain of those transactions will not be realized or will not be realized within the expected time frame; the risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully; negative effects of the announcement or the consummation of the transaction on the market price of Pfizer’s common stock, Pfizer’s credit ratings and/or Pfizer’s operating results; disruption from the transactions making it more difficult to maintain business and operational relationships; risks related to our ability to grow revenues for certain acquired products; significant transaction costs; unknown liabilities; the risk of litigation and/or regulatory actions related to the transaction, other business effects, including the effects of industry, market, economic, political or regulatory conditions, future exchange and interest rates, changes in tax and other laws, regulations, rates and policies, future business combinations or disposals; competitive developments; and as it relates to the Consumer Healthcare JV with GSK, the possibility that a future separation of the joint venture as an independent company via a demerger of GSK’s equity interest to GSK’s shareholders and a listing of the joint venture on the U.K. equity market may not occur; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the impact of, and risks and uncertainties related to, restructurings and internal reorganizations, including the reorganization of our commercial operations in 2019, as well as any other corporate strategic initiatives, and cost-reduction and productivity initiatives, each of which requires upfront costs but may fail to yield anticipated benefits and may result in unexpected costs or organizational disruption . 
 We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized. Achievement of anticipated results is subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. Investors should bear this in mind as they consider forward-looking statements, and are cautioned not to put undue reliance on forward-looking statements. 
 
 We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law or by the rules and regulations of the SEC. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects. 
 
 Certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions are discussed here and under the heading entitled “Risk Factors” in Part I, ITEM 1A. of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 . We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider any such list to be a complete set of all potential risks or uncertainties. 
 
 The operating segment information provided in this report does not purport to represent the revenues, costs and income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income that each of our operating segments would have recorded had each segment operated as a standalone company during the periods presented. 
 
 This report includes discussion of certain clinical studies relating to various in-line products and/or product candidates. These studies typically are part of a larger body of clinical data relating to such products or product candidates, and the discussion herein should be considered in the context of the larger body of data. In addition, clinical trial data are subject to differing interpretations, and, even when we view data as sufficient to support the safety and/or effectiveness of a product candidate or a new indication for an in-line product, regulatory authorities may not share our views and may require additional data or may deny approval altogether. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2019 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 57 
 
 
 
 
