 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 GLOSSARY OF DEFINED TERMS 
 
 Unless the context requires otherwise, references to “Pfizer,” “the Company,” “we,” “us” or “our” in this 2018 Financial Report (defined below) refer to Pfizer Inc. and its subsidiaries. We also have used several other terms in this 2018 Financial Report, most of which are explained or defined below: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 This Financial Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, which was filed as Exhibit 13 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018 
 
 
 2018 Form 10-K 
 
 Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018 
 
 
 ABO 
 
 Accumulated postretirement benefit obligation 
 
 
 ACA (Also referred to as U.S. Healthcare Legislation) 
 
 U.S. Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act 
 
 
 ACIP 
 
 Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices 
 
 
 ALK 
 
 anaplastic lymphoma kinase 
 
 
 Allergan 
 
 Allergan plc 
 
 
 Alliance revenues 
 
 Revenues from alliance agreements under which we co-promote products discovered or developed by other companies or us 
 
 
 Allogene 
 
 Allogene Therapeutics, Inc. 
 
 
 AMPA 
 
 α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid 
 
 
 Anacor 
 
 Anacor Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 
 
 
 AOCI 
 
 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income 
 
 
 Astellas 
 
 Astellas Pharma Inc., Astellas US LLC and Astellas Pharma US, Inc. 
 
 
 ASU 
 
 Accounting Standards Update 
 
 
 ATM-AVI 
 
 aztreonam-avibactam 
 
 
 Avillion 
 
 Avillion LLP 
 
 
 Bain Capital 
 
 Bain Capital Private Equity and Bain Capital Life Sciences 
 
 
 Bamboo 
 
 Bamboo Therapeutics, Inc. 
 
 
 Biogen 
 
 Biogen Inc. 
 
 
 Biopharma 
 
 Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group 
 
 
 BMS 
 
 Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 
 
 
 BRCA 
 
 BReast CAncer susceptibility gene 
 
 
 CAR T 
 
 chimeric antigen receptor T cell 
 
 
 CDC 
 
 U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 
 
 
 Cellectis 
 
 Cellectis S.A. 
 
 
 Cerevel 
 
 Cerevel Therapeutics, LLC 
 
 
 CIAS 
 
 cognitive impairment associated with schizophrenia 
 
 
 Citibank 
 
 Citibank, N.A. 
 
 
 CML 
 
 chronic myelogenous leukemia 
 
 
 Developed Markets 
 
 U.S., Western Europe, Japan, Canada, South Korea, Australia, Scandinavian countries, Finland and New Zealand 
 
 
 EEA 
 
 European Economic Area 
 
 
 EGFR 
 
 epidermal growth factor receptor 
 
 
 EH 
 
 Essential Health 
 
 
 EMA 
 
 European Medicines Agency 
 
 
 Emerging Markets 
 
 Includes, but is not limited to, the following markets: Asia (excluding Japan and South Korea), Latin America, Eastern Europe, Africa, the Middle East, Central Europe and Turkey 
 
 
 EPS 
 
 earnings per share 
 
 
 EU 
 
 European Union 
 
 
 Exchange Act 
 
 Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended 
 
 
 FASB 
 
 Financial Accounting Standards Board 
 
 
 FDA 
 
 U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
 
 
 GAAP 
 
 Generally Accepted Accounting Principles 
 
 
 GIST 
 
 gastrointestinal stromal tumors 
 
 
 GPD 
 
 Global Product Development organization 
 
 
 GSK 
 
 GlaxoSmithKline plc 
 
 
 GS&Co. 
 
 Goldman, Sachs & Co. LLC 
 
 
 HER 
 
 human epidermal growth factor receptor 
 
 
 HER2- 
 
 human epidermal growth factor receptor 2-negative 
 
 
 hGH-CTP 
 
 human growth hormone 
 
 
 HIS 
 
 Hospira Infusion Systems 
 
 
 Hisun 
 
 Zhejiang Hisun Pharmaceuticals Co., Ltd. 
 
 
 Hisun Pfizer 
 
 Hisun Pfizer Pharmaceuticals Company Limited 
 
 
 Hospira 
 
 Hospira, Inc. 
 
 
 HR+ 
 
 hormone receptor-positive 
 
 
 ICU Medical 
 
 ICU Medical, Inc. 
 
 
 IH 
 
 Innovative Health 
 
 
 InnoPharma 
 
 InnoPharma, Inc. 
 
 
 IPR&D 
 
 in-process research and development 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 i 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 IRC 
 
 Internal Revenue Code 
 
 
 IRS 
 
 U.S. Internal Revenue Service 
 
 
 IV 
 
 intravenous 
 
 
 Janssen 
 
 Janssen Biotech, Inc. 
 
 
 J&J 
 
 Johnson & Johnson 
 
 
 King 
 
 King Pharmaceuticals LLC (formerly King Pharmaceuticals, Inc.) 
 
 
 LDL 
 
 low density lipoprotein 
 
 
 LEP 
 
 Legacy Established Products 
 
 
 LIBOR 
 
 London Interbank Offered Rate 
 
 
 Lilly 
 
 Eli Lilly and Company 
 
 
 LOE 
 
 loss of exclusivity 
 
 
 MCC 
 
 Merkel Cell Carcinoma 
 
 
 MCO 
 
 Managed Care Organization 
 
 
 Medivation 
 
 Medivation, Inc. 
 
 
 Merck 
 
 Merck & Co., Inc. 
 
 
 Meridian 
 
 Meridian Medical Technologies, Inc. 
 
 
 Moody’s 
 
 Moody’s Investors Service 
 
 
 NAV 
 
 Net asset value 
 
 
 NDA 
 
 new drug application 
 
 
 NovaQuest 
 
 NovaQuest Co-Investment Fund II, L.P. or NovaQuest Co-Investment Fund V, L.P., as applicable 
 
 
 NSCLC 
 
 non-small cell lung cancer 
 
 
 NYSE 
 
 New York Stock Exchange 
 
 
 OPKO 
 
 OPKO Health, Inc. 
 
 
 OTC 
 
 over-the-counter 
 
 
 PARP 
 
 poly ADP ribose polymerase 
 
 
 
 PBM 
 
 Pharmacy Benefit Manager 
 
 
 PBO 
 
 Projected benefit obligation 
 
 
 Pharmacia 
 
 Pharmacia Corporation 
 
 
 PPS 
 
 Portfolio Performance Shares 
 
 
 PP&E 
 
 Property, plant & equipment 
 
 
 PSAs 
 
 Performance Share Awards 
 
 
 PsA 
 
 psoriatic arthritis 
 
 
 PTSRUs 
 
 Performance Total Shareholder Return Units 
 
 
 PTUs 
 
 Profit Units 
 
 
 RA 
 
 rheumatoid arthritis 
 
 
 RCC 
 
 renal cell carcinoma 
 
 
 R&D 
 
 research and development 
 
 
 RPI 
 
 RPI Finance Trust 
 
 
 RSUs 
 
 Restricted Stock Units 
 
 
 Sandoz 
 
 Sandoz, Inc., a division of Novartis AG 
 
 
 Sangamo 
 
 Sangamo Therapeutics, Inc. 
 
 
 SEC 
 
 U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission 
 
 
 Servier 
 
 Les Laboratoires Servier SAS 
 
 
 SFJ 
 
 SFJ Pharmaceuticals 
 
 
 Shire 
 
 Shire International GmbH 
 
 
 SI&A 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative 
 
 
 S&P 
 
 Standard and Poor’s 
 
 
 SIP 
 
 Sterile Injectable Pharmaceuticals 
 
 
 StratCO 
 
 Strategy and Commercial Operations 
 
 
 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act or TCJA 
 
 Legislation commonly referred to as the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 
 
 
 Teuto 
 
 Laboratório Teuto Brasileiro S.A. 
 
 
 Teva 
 
 Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. 
 
 
 TSR 
 
 Total Shareholder Return 
 
 
 TSRUs 
 
 Total Shareholder Return Units 
 
 
 U.K. 
 
 United Kingdom 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 United States 
 
 
 ViiV 
 
 ViiV Healthcare Limited 
 
 
 WRD 
 
 Worldwide Research and Development 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ii 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 INTRODUCTION 
 
 See the Glossary of Defined Terms at the beginning of this 2018 Financial Report for terms used throughout this Financial Review . Our Financial Review is provided to assist readers in understanding the results of operations, financial condition and cash flows of Pfizer Inc. and its subsidiaries (the Company). It should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The discussion in this Financial Review contains forward-looking statements that involve substantial risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, such as those discussed in Part 1, ITEM 1A, “Risk Factors” of our 2018 Form 10-K and in the “Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results”, “Our Operating Environment” and “Our Strategy” sections of this Financial Review. 
 
 The Financial Review is organized as follows: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ● 
 
 
 
 Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook 
 
 Beginning on page 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This section provides information about the following: Financial Highlights; Our Business; Our 2018 Performance; Our Operating Environment; The Global Economic Environment, Our Strategy; Our Business Development Initiatives, such as acquisitions, dispositions, licensing and collaborations; and Our Financial Guidance for 2019. 
 
 
 
 
 ● 
 
 
 
 Significant Accounting Policies and Application of Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions 
 
 Beginning on page 16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This section discusses those accounting policies and estimates that we consider important in understanding our consolidated financial statements. For additional discussion of our accounting policies, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 1. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies . 
 
 
 
 
 ● 
 
 
 
 Analysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income 
 
 Beginning on page 20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This section includes the following sub-sections: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ○ 
 
 Revenues—Overview 
 
 Beginning on page 20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This sub-section provides a high-level summary of our revenues, including revenue deductions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ○ 
 
 Revenues by Segment and Geography 
 
 Beginning on page 22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This sub-section provides an overview of revenues by segment and geography. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ○ 
 
 Revenues––Selected Product Discussion 
 
 Beginning on page 24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This sub-section provides an overview of several of our biopharmaceutical products. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ○ 
 
 Product Developments––Biopharmaceutical 
 
 Beginning on page 29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This sub-section provides an overview of important biopharmaceutical product developments. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ○ 
 
 Costs and Expenses 
 
 Beginning on page 33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This sub-section provides a discussion about our costs and expenses. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ○ 
 
 Provision/(Benefit) for Taxes on Income 
 
 Beginning on page 36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This sub-section provides a discussion of items impacting our tax provisions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ○ 
 
 Non-GAAP Financial Measure (Adjusted Income) 
 
 Beginning on page 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This sub-section provides a discussion of an alternative view of performance used by management. 
 
 
 
 
 ● 
 
 
 
 Analysis of Operating Segment Information 
 
 Beginning on page 42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This section provides a discussion of the performance of each of our operating segments. 
 
 
 
 
 ● 
 
 
 
 Analysis of the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 
 
 Beginning on page 51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This section provides a discussion of changes in certain components of other comprehensive income. 
 
 
 
 
 ● 
 
 
 
 Analysis of the Consolidated Balance Sheets 
 
 Beginning on page 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This section provides a discussion of changes in certain balance sheet accounts, including Accumulated other comprehensive loss . 
 
 
 
 
 ● 
 
 
 
 Analysis of the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
 
 Beginning on page 53 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This section provides an analysis of our consolidated cash flows for the three years ended December 31, 2018. 
 
 
 
 
 ● 
 
 
 
 Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources 
 
 Beginning on page 55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This section provides an analysis of selected measures of our liquidity and of our capital resources as of December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, as well as a discussion of our outstanding debt and other commitments that existed as of December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017. Included in the discussion of outstanding debt is a discussion of the amount of financial capacity available to help fund Pfizer’s future activities. 
 
 
 
 
 ● 
 
 
 
 New Accounting Standards 
 
 Beginning on page 59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This section discusses accounting standards that we have recently adopted, as well as those that recently have been issued, but not yet adopted. 
 
 
 
 
 ● 
 
 
 
 Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Effect Future Results 
 
 Beginning on page 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This section provides a description of the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in forward-looking statements presented in this Financial Review. Also included in this section are discussions of Financial Risk Management and Contingencies, including legal and tax matters. 
 
 
 Certain amounts in our Financial Review may not add due to rounding. All percentages have been calculated using unrounded amounts. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 1 
 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OVERVIEW OF OUR PERFORMANCE, OPERATING ENVIRONMENT, STRATEGY AND OUTLOOK 
 
 Financial Highlights 
 
 The following charts provide a summary of certain financial performance (in billions, except per share data): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Total Revenues––$53.6 billion 
 
 2018 Net Cash Flow from Operations––$15.8 billion 
 
 
 An increase of 2% compared to 2017 
 
 A decrease of 6% compared to 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Reported Diluted EPS––$1.87 
 
 2018 Adjusted Diluted EPS (Non- GAAP )––$3.00* 
 
 
 A decrease of 47% compared to 2017 
 
 An increase of 13% compared to 201 7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 For an understanding of Adjusted diluted EPS (which is a non-GAAP financial measure), including reconciliations of certain GAAP reported to non-GAAP adjusted information, see the “Non-GAAP Financial Measure (Adjusted Income)” section of this Financial Review. 
 Our Business 
 
 We apply science and our global resources to bring therapies to people that extend and significantly improve their lives through the discovery, development and manufacture of healthcare products. Our global portfolio includes medicines and vaccines, as well as many of the world’s best-known consumer healthcare products. We work across developed and emerging markets to advance wellness, prevention, treatments and cures that challenge the most feared diseases of our time. We collaborate with healthcare providers, governments and local communities to support and expand access to reliable, affordable healthcare around the world. Our revenues are derived from the sale of our products and, to a much lesser extent, from alliance agreements, under which we co-promote products discovered or developed by other companies or us (Alliance revenues). 
 From the second quarter of our 2016 fiscal year until the end of 2018, we managed our commercial operations through two distinct business segments: Pfizer Innovative Health (IH) and Pfizer Essential Health (EH). For additional information about this operating structure, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 18A. Segment, Geographic and Other Revenue Information: Segment Information. At the beginning of our 2019 fiscal year, we began to manage our commercial operations through a new global commercial structure consisting of three businesses. See the “Our Strategy––Organizing for Growth” and “––Commercial Operations” sections of this Financial Review below for additional information. 
 On January 1, 2019, Dr. Albert Bourla succeeded Ian Read as Chief Executive Officer of the company and Ian Read transitioned from his role as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer to Executive Chairman of Pfizer’s Board of Directors. 
 The majority of our revenues come from the manufacture and sale of biopharmaceutical products. The biopharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and highly regulated. As a result, we face a number of industry-specific factors and challenges, which can significantly impact our results. These factors include, among others: the loss or expiration of intellectual property rights and the expiration of co-promotion and licensing rights, the ability to replenish innovative biopharmaceutical products, healthcare legislation, pipeline productivity, the regulatory environment, pricing and access pressures and competition. We also face challenges as a result of the global economic environment. For additional information about these factors and challenges, see the “Our Operating Environment” and “The Global Economic Environment” sections of this Financial Review and Part I, ITEM 1A, “Risk Factors” of our 2018 Form 10-K. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The financial information included in our consolidated financial statements for our subsidiaries operating outside the U.S. is as of and for the year ended November 30 for each year presented. Pfizer's fiscal year-end for U.S. subsidiaries is as of and for the year ended December 31 for each year presented. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 References to developed and emerging markets in this Financial Review include: 
 
 
 Developed markets 
 
 
 
 U.S., Western Europe, Japan, Canada, South Korea, Australia, Scandinavian countries, Finland and New Zealand 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Emerging markets (include, but are not limited to) 
 
 
 
 Asia (excluding Japan and South Korea), Latin America, Eastern Europe, Africa, the Middle East, Central Europe and Turkey 
 References to operational variances in this Financial Review pertain to period-over-period growth rates that exclude the impact of foreign exchange. The operational variances are determined by multiplying or dividing, as appropriate, our current year U.S. dollar results by the current year average foreign exchange rates and then multiplying or dividing, as appropriate, those amounts by the prior-year average foreign exchange rates. Although exchange rate changes are part of our business, they are not within our control. Exchange rate changes, however, can mask positive or negative trends in the business; therefore, we believe presenting operational variances provides useful information to evaluate the results of our business. 
 
 On December 22, 2017, the U.S. enacted significant changes to U.S. tax law following the passage and signing of the TCJA. The TCJA is complex and significantly changes the U.S. corporate income tax system by, among other things, reducing the U.S. Federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, transitioning U.S. international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a territorial tax system and imposing a repatriation tax on deemed repatriated accumulated post-1986 earnings of foreign subsidiaries. For information on the TCJA, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 5A . Tax Matters: Taxes on Income from Continuing Operations. 
 
 Our significant recent business development activities include: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 On December 19, 2018, we announced that we entered into a definitive agreement with GSK under which we and GSK have agreed to combine our respective consumer healthcare businesses into a new consumer healthcare joint venture that will operate globally under the GSK Consumer Healthcare name. The joint venture is expected to be a category leader in pain relief, respiratory, vitamin and mineral supplements, digestive health, skin health and therapeutic oral health and will be the largest global OTC consumer healthcare business. In exchange for contributing our Consumer Healthcare business, we will receive a 32% equity stake in the company and GSK will own the remaining 68%. The transaction is expected to close in the second half of 2019, subject to customary closing conditions including GSK shareholder approval and required regulatory approvals. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 2C. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Arrangements, Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements, Equity-Method Investments and Privately Held Investment : Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale and the “Our Strategy” section of this Financial Review below. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 On February 3, 2017, we completed the sale of Pfizer’s global infusion systems net assets, HIS, to ICU Medical for up to approximately $900 million , composed of cash and contingent cash consideration, ICU Medical common stock and seller financing . At closing, we received 3.2 million newly issued shares of ICU Medical common stock, which we initially valued at approximately $428 million (all of which we sold during 2018), a promissory note in the amount of $75 million and net cash of approximately $200 million before customary adjustments for net working capital. In addition, we are entitled to receive a contingent amount of up to an additional $225 million in cash based on ICU Medical’s achievement of certain cumulative performance targets for the combined company through December 31, 2019. The operating results of HIS are included in our consolidated statement of income and EH’s operating results through February 2, 2017 and, therefore, our financial results, and EH’s operating results, for the year ended December 31, 2017 reflect approximately one month of HIS domestic operations and approximately two months of HIS international operations, while our financial results, and EH’s operating results, for the year ended December 31, 2016 reflect 12 months of HIS global operations. Our financial results, and EH’s operating results, for 2018 do not reflect any contribution from HIS global operations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 On December 22, 2016, which fell in the first fiscal quarter of 2017 for our international operations, we acquired the development and commercialization rights to AstraZeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business, primarily outside the U.S. for $1,040 million , composed of cash and contingent consideration. Commencing from the acquisition date, our financial statements reflect the assets, liabilities, operating results and cash flows of this business, and, in accordance with our international reporting period, our financial results, EH’s operating results, and cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2017 reflect approximately 11 months of the small molecule anti-infectives business acquired from AstraZeneca. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 On September 28, 2016, we acquired Medivation for $81.50 per share. The total fair value of consideration transferred for Medivation was approximately $14.3 billion in cash ( $13.9 billion , net of cash acquired). Of this consideration, approximately $365 million was not paid as of December 31, 2016, and was recorded in Other current liabilities . The remaining consideration was paid as of December 31, 2017 . Commencing from the acquisition date, our financial statements reflect the assets, liabilities, operating results and cash flows of Medivation. In accordance with our domestic and international reporting periods, our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2016 reflect approximately three months of Medivation operations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 On June 24, 2016, we acquired Anacor for $99.25 per share. The total fair value of consideration transferred for Anacor was approximately $4.9 billion in cash ( $4.5 billion , net of cash acquired), plus $698 million debt assumed. Commencing from the acquisition date, our financial statements reflect the assets, liabilities, operating results and cash flows of Anacor. In accordance with our domestic and international reporting periods, our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2016 reflect approximately six months of Anacor operations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 On April 6, 2016, we announced that the merger agreement between Pfizer and Allergan entered into on November 22, 2015 was terminated by mutual agreement of the companies. The decision was driven by the actions announced by the U.S. Department of Treasury on April 4, 2016, which the companies concluded qualified as an “Adverse Tax Law Change” under the merger agreement. In connection with the termination of the merger agreement, on April 8, 2016 (which fell into Pfizer’s second fiscal quarter of 2016), Pfizer paid Allergan 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 3 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 $150 million (pre-tax) for reimbursement of Allergan’s expenses associated with the terminated transaction (see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 4 . Other (Income)/Deductions –– Net ). Pfizer and Allergan also released each other from any and all claims in connection with the merger agreement. 
 For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 2. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Arrangements, Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements, Equity-Method Investments and Privately Held Investment and the “Our Strategy” and “Our Business Development Initiatives” sections of this Financial Review below. 
 
 Impact of Hurricanes in Puerto Rico 
 
 We have manufacturing and commercial operations in Puerto Rico, which were impacted by the hurricanes toward the end of the third quarter in 2017. While our three manufacturing sites in Puerto Rico sustained some damage and became inoperable due to issues impacting Puerto Rico overall, all three sites have resumed operations and remediation activities were completed in 2018. Our commercial sales offices in Puerto Rico have been operational since October 2017. 
 
 Product Manufacturing 
 
 We periodically encounter difficulties or delays in manufacturing, including due to suspension of manufacturing or voluntary recall of a product, or legal or regulatory actions such as warning letters. For example, Hospira’s manufacturing facility in McPherson, Kansas is currently under the FDA inspection status of Official Action Indicated (OAI). As a result of this status, the FDA may refuse to grant premarket approval of applications and/or the FDA may refuse to grant export certificates related to products manufactured at our McPherson site until the site status is upgraded, which will require a successful re-inspection by the FDA. Future FDA inspections and regulatory activities will further assess the adequacy and sustainability of corrections implemented at the site. Communication with the FDA on the status of the McPherson site is ongoing. For additional information regarding the FDA inspection of the McPherson site, see Part I, ITEM 1A, “Risk Factors––Product Manufacturing, Sales and Marketing Risks” of our 2018 Form 10-K. 
 
 The product shortages we have been experiencing within our portfolio are primarily for products from the legacy Hospira portfolio and are largely driven by capacity constraints, technical issues and supplier quality concerns. We continue to remediate issues at legacy Hospira facilities manufacturing sterile injectables. Any continuing product shortage interruption at these manufacturing facilities could negatively impact our financial results, specifically in our SIP portfolio. We continue to make progress on our comprehensive remediation plan to upgrade and modernize these facilities, and we expect our supply issues to be substantially improved by the end of 2019. 
 Our 2018 Performance 
 
 Revenues–– 2018 
 
 Revenues in 2018 increase d by $1.1 billion , or 2% , compared to 2017 , which reflects operational growth of $791 million , or 2% , and the favorable impact of foreign exchange of $310 million , or less than 1%. 
 The following graph illustrates the components of the increase in revenues in 2018 : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 LOE generally pertains to period-over-period revenue impacts for products across our portfolios experiencing patent expirations or loss of regulatory exclusivity in certain developed markets. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 4 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following provides an analysis of the changes in revenues in 2018 : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 Revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 52,546 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Operational growth/(decline): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Continued growth from key brands (a) and from recently launched products (b) , as well as growth from Biosimilars (c) and our Consumer Healthcare business, and the impact from CentreOne 
 
 
 
 3,377 
 
 
 
 
 Declines from total Viagra (d) (primarily in the U.S.), the Peri-LOE Products portfolio (excluding Viagra EH (d) , which was impacted by the shift in the reporting of U.S. and Canada Viagra revenues to EH), the SIP portfolio (primarily in developed markets), the LEP portfolio (primarily in developed markets), Enbrel (driven by declines in most developed Europe markets) and the hemophilia portfolio (primarily in developed Europe) 
 
 
 
 (2,520 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Disposition-related impact of the February 2017 sale of HIS (e) 
 
 
 
 (97 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Other operational factors, net 
 
 
 
 31 
 
 
 
 
 Operational growth, net 
 
 
 
 791 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Operational revenues 
 
 
 
 53,337 
 
 
 
 
 Favorable impact of foreign exchange 
 
 
 
 310 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 53,647 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 K ey brands represent Ibrance, Eliquis, Xeljanz, Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13, Xtandi, Lyrica-IH and Chantix/Champix. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 Growth from recently launched products include Eucrisa in the U.S., as well as Besponsa and Bavencio, primarily in the U.S. and developed Europe. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 Growth in Biosimilars, primarily from Inflectra in certain channels in the U.S., as well as in developed Europe. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) 
 
 Viagra lost exclusivity in the U.S. in December 2017. In 2018, revenues for Viagra in the U.S. and Canada, which were reported in IH through 2017, were reported in EH (which reported all other Viagra revenues excluding the U.S. and Canada through 2017). Therefore, in 2018, total Viagra revenues were reported in EH. Total Viagra revenues in 2017 represent the aggregate of worldwide revenues from Viagra IH and Viagra EH. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (e) 
 
 Impact on financial results for the sale of HIS in February 2017. The 2018 financial results do not reflect any contribution from HIS global operations, compared to approximately one month of HIS domestic operations and approximately two months of HIS international operations in 2017. 
 
 See the “Analysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income –– Revenues –– Overview” section below for more information, including a discussion of key drivers of our revenue performance. 
 Income from Continuing Operations Before Provision/(Benefit) for Taxes on Income–– 2018 
 The following provides an analysis of the decrease in Income from continuing operations before provision/benefit) for taxes on income for 2018 : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Income from continuing operations before provision/(benefit) for taxes on income for the year ended December 31, 2017 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 12,305 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Favorable change in revenues 
 
 
 
 1,101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Favorable/(Unfavorable) changes: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Higher certain asset impairments (a) 
 
 
 
 (2,720 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Higher Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs (b) 
 
 
 
 (693 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Higher Research and development expenses (c) 
 
 
 
 (322 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Impact of net realized (gains)/losses on sales of investments in debt securities (a) 
 
 
 
 (186 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Lower net losses on early retirement of debt (a) 
 
 
 
 996 
 
 
 
 
 Impact of net periodic benefit costs/(credits) other than service costs (a) 
 
 
 
 389 
 
 
 
 
 Higher net gains recognized during the period on investments in equity securities (a) 
 
 
 
 362 
 
 
 
 
 Lower Selling, information and administrative expenses (d) 
 
 
 
 350 
 
 
 
 
 Higher income from collaborations, out-licensing arrangements and sales of compound/product rights (a) 
 
 
 
 271 
 
 
 
 
 All other items, net 
 
 
 
 33 
 
 
 
 
 Income from continuing operations before provision/(benefit) for taxes on income for the year ended December 31, 2018 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 11,885 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 See the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 4. Other (Income)/Deductions—Net . 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 See the “Costs and Expenses–– Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives ” and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 3 . Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives . 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 See the “Costs and Expenses––Research and Development (R&D) Expenses” section of this Financial Review. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) 
 
 See the “Costs and Expenses––Selling, Informational and Administrative (SI&A) Expenses” section of this Financial Review. 
 For information on our tax provision and effective tax rate see the “Provision/(Benefit) for Taxes on Income” section of this Financial Review and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 5A . Tax Matters: Taxes on Income from Continuing Operations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 5 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Our Operating Environment 
 
 Industry-Specific Challenges 
 
 Intellectual Property Rights and Collaboration/Licensing Rights 
 
 The loss, expiration or invalidation of intellectual property rights, patent litigation settlements with generic manufacturers and the expiration of co-promotion and licensing rights can have a significant adverse effect on our revenues. Many of our branded products have multiple patents that expire at varying dates, thereby strengthening our overall patent protection. However, once patent protection has expired or has been lost prior to the expiration date as a result of a legal challenge, we lose exclusivity on these products, and generic pharmaceutical manufacturers generally produce similar products and sell them for a lower price. The date at which generic competition commences may be different from the date that the patent or regulatory exclusivity expires. However, when generic competition does commence, the resulting price competition can substantially decrease our revenues for the impacted products, often in a very short period of time. Also, if one of our patents is found to be invalid by judicial, court or administrative proceedings, such as inter partes review, post-grant review, re-examination or opposition proceedings, before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, the European Patent Office, or other foreign counterparts, generic or competitive products could be introduced into the market resulting in the erosion of sales of our existing products. For example, several of the patents in our pneumococcal vaccine portfolio were challenged in inter partes review and post-grant review proceedings in the U.S. In June 2018, the Patent Trial and Appeal Board ruled on one patent, holding that one claim was valid and that all other claims were invalid. The party challenging that patent has appealed the decision. Challenges to other patents remain pending before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. The invalidation of these patents could potentially allow a competitor pneumococcal vaccine into the marketplace. 
 
 A number of our current products have experienced patent-based expirations or loss of regulatory exclusivity in certain markets in the last few years. For example, as a result of a patent litigation settlement, Teva launched a generic version of Viagra in the U.S. in December 2017. In addition, the basic product patent for Lyrica in the U.S. will expire in June 2019, which includes the FDA’s grant of pediatric exclusivity that extended the period of market exclusivity in the U.S. for Lyrica for an additional six months from December 2018. 
 For additional information, see the “Recent Losses and Expected Losses of Product Exclusivity” section below. 
 
 Our biologic products, including BeneFIX, ReFacto, Xyntha, Bavencio, Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13 and Enbrel (we market Enbrel outside the U.S. and Canada), may face in the future, or already face, competition from biosimilars (also referred to as follow-on biologics). If competitors are able to obtain marketing approval for biosimilars referencing our biologic products, our biologic products may become subject to competition from these biosimilars, with attendant competitive pressure, and price reductions could follow. For example, Enbrel faces ongoing biosimilar competition in most developed Europe markets. The expiration or successful challenge of applicable patent rights could trigger this competition, assuming any relevant regulatory exclusivity period has expired. 
 
 We have lost exclusivity for a number of our products in certain markets and we have lost collaboration rights with respect to a number of our alliance products in certain markets, and we expect certain products to face significantly increased generic competition over the next few years. 
 
 Specifically: 
 
 Recent Losses and Expected Losses of Product Exclusivity 
 The following table provides information about certain of our products recently experiencing, or expected to experience in 2019 , patent expirations or loss of regulatory exclusivity in the U.S., Europe or Japan, showing, by product, the key dates or expected key dates, the markets impacted and the revenues associated with those products in those markets: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Product Revenues in Markets Impacted 
 
 
 Products 
 
 
 
 Key Dates (a) 
 
 
 
 Markets Impacted 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 Viagra (b) 
 
 
 
 June 2013 May 2014 December 2017 
 
 
 
 Major European markets Japan U.S. 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 274 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 850 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,217 
 
 
 
 
 Lyrica (c) 
 
 
 
 July 2014 
 June 2019 
 
 
 
 Major European markets 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 3,852 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,901 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,831 
 
 
 
 
 Zyvox (d) 
 
 
 
 August 2014 
 First half of 2015 
 January 2016 
 
 
 
 Japan 
 U.S. 
 Major European markets 
 
 
 
 62 
 
 
 
 
 
 103 
 
 
 
 
 
 235 
 
 
 
 
 Relpax 
 
 
 
 December 2015 
 December 2016 
 
 
 
 Major European markets 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 90 
 
 
 
 
 
 176 
 
 
 
 
 
 263 
 
 
 
 
 Vfend 
 
 
 
 July 2016 
 January 2016 
 
 
 
 Major European markets 
 Japan 
 
 
 
 106 
 
 
 
 
 
 150 
 
 
 
 
 
 299 
 
 
 
 
 Tygacil 
 
 
 
 April 2016 
 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 25 
 
 
 
 
 
 45 
 
 
 
 
 
 80 
 
 
 
 
 Pristiq (e) 
 
 
 
 March 2017 
 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 71 
 
 
 
 
 
 133 
 
 
 
 
 
 578 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 Unless stated otherwise, “Key Dates” indicate patent-based expiration dates. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 As a result of a patent litigation settlement, Teva launched a generic version of Viagra in the U.S. in December 2017. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 In November 2018, the FDA granted pediatric exclusivity for Lyrica in the U.S. for an additional six months to June 2019; pediatric exclusivity applies to both the basic product patent for Lyrica and a method of treatment patent, both of which expired in the U.S. in December 2018. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) 
 
 Pursuant to terms of a settlement agreement, certain formulations of Zyvox became subject to generic competition in the U.S. in January 2015. Other formulations of Zyvox became subject to generic competition in the U.S. in the first half of 2015. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (e) 
 
 As a result of a patent litigation settlement with several generic manufacturers, generic versions of Pristiq launched in the U.S. in March 2017. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 6 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 For additional information, including the patent rights we consider most significant in relation to our business as a whole, together with the year in which the basic product patent expires, see the “Patents and Other Intellectual Property Rights” section in Part I, ITEM 1, “Business” of our 2018 Form 10-K. 
 Our financial results in 2018 reflect the impact of the loss of exclusivity of various products discussed above. 
 We will continue to aggressively defend our patent rights whenever we deem appropriate. For a discussion of certain recent developments with respect to patent litigation, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 17A1. Contingencies and Certain Commitments : Legal Proceedings –– Patent Litigation . 
 
 Regulatory Environment/Pricing and Access––U.S. Healthcare Legislation 
 
 In March 2010, the ACA was enacted in the U.S. For additional information, see the “Government Regulation and Price Constraints” section in Part I, ITEM 1, “Business”, of our 2018 Form 10-K. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 We recorded the following amounts as a result of the U.S. Healthcare Legislation: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 Reduction to Revenues , related to the Medicare “coverage gap” discount provision 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 674 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 450 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 410 
 
 
 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses , related to the fee payable to the federal government (which is not deductible for U.S. income tax purposes), based on our prior-calendar-year share relative to other companies of branded prescription drug sales to specified government programs. 2018 also reflected a favorable true-up associated with the updated 2017 invoice received from the federal government, which reflected a lower expense than what was previously estimated for invoiced periods. 
 
 
 
 184 
 
 
 
 
 
 307 
 
 
 
 
 
 312 
 
 
 
 Regulatory Environment/Pricing and Access––Government and Other Payer Group Pressures 
 
 The pricing of medicines by pharmaceutical manufacturers and the cost of healthcare, which includes medicines, medical services and hospital services, continues to be important to payers, governments, patients, and other stakeholders. We believe that medicines are amongst the most powerful tool for patients in curing, treating and preventing illness and disability, and that all patients should have appropriate access to the medicines their doctors prescribe. We may consider a number of factors when determining a medicine’s price, including, for example, its impact on patients and their disease, other available treatments, the medicine’s potential to reduce other healthcare costs (such as hospital stays), and affordability. Within the U.S., in particular, we may also engage with patients, doctors and healthcare plans regarding their views. We also negotiate with insurers, including PBMs and MCOs, often providing significant discounts to them from the initial price. The price that patients pay in the U.S. for the medicines their physicians prescribe is ultimately set by healthcare providers and insurers. On average, in the U.S., insurers cover a much lower share of prescription drug costs than medical services, which results in a greater proportion of out-of-pocket costs being passed on to patients for medicines, thereby making them less accessible and affordable. We will continue to work with insurance providers, governments and others to improve access to today’s innovative treatments. 
 
 Governments, MCOs and other payer groups continue to seek increasing discounts on our products through a variety of means, such as leveraging their purchasing power, implementing price controls, and demanding price cuts (directly or by rebate actions). In Europe, Japan, China, Canada, South Korea and some other international markets, governments provide healthcare at low-to-zero direct cost to consumers at the point of care and have significant power as large single payers to regulate pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system, particularly under recent global economic pressures. In the U.S., government action to reduce federal spending on entitlement programs including Medicare and Medicaid may affect payment for our products or services provided using our products. Any significant spending reductions or cost controls affecting Medicare, Medicaid or other publicly funded or subsidized health programs that may be implemented could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Significant Medicare reductions could also result if, for example, Congress proceeds with certain proposals to convert the Medicare fee-for-service program into a premium support program, or Congress chooses to implement the recommendations made annually by the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission, which are primarily intended to extend the fiscal solvency of the Medicare program. 
 
 Consolidation among MCOs has increased the negotiating power of MCOs and other third-party payers. Private third-party payers, as well as governments, increasingly employ formularies to control costs by taking into account discounts in connection with decisions about formulary inclusion or favorable formulary placement. Failure to obtain or maintain timely or adequate pricing or favorable formulary placement for our products, or failure to obtain such formulary placement at favorable pricing, could adversely impact revenue. 
 
 Efforts by government officials or legislators to implement measures to regulate prices or payment for pharmaceutical products, including legislation on drug importation, could adversely affect our business if implemented. Recently, there has been considerable public and government scrutiny of pharmaceutical pricing and proposals to address the perceived high cost of pharmaceuticals. At the federal level, for example, in May 2018, President Trump released his Blueprint to Lower Drug Prices and Reduce Out-of-Pocket Costs (Blueprint). Pfizer communicated a formal response to the request for information that accompanied the Blueprint, and is participating in the subsequent rule-making process to advance the proposals that are most likely to bring meaningful out-of-pocket cost relief to patients. Certain proposals in the Blueprint, and related drug pricing measures proposed since the Blueprint, could cause significant operational and reimbursement changes for the pharmaceutical industry. As another example, in October 2018, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services solicited public comments on potential changes to payment for certain Medicare Part B drugs, including reducing the Medicare payment amount for selected Medicare Part B drugs to more closely align with international drug prices. In addition, in January 2019, the White House Office of Management and Budget released the long awaited proposed rule submitted by the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services to remove safe harbor protections for drug rebates paid to insurance plans and PBMs for Medicare Part D and Managed Medicaid 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 7 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 and to create new safe harbors. Among other changes, the proposed rule would explicitly exclude the reductions in price offered by drug manufacturers to PBMs in Medicare Part D and Managed Medicaid plans from protection under the “discount” safe harbor. It would also create a new safe harbor designed specifically for price reductions in pharmaceutical products, but only those that are fully reflected in the price to the patient at the pharmacy counter. Additionally, a new safe harbor was proposed to protect administrative fees paid to PBMs, which must be at fair market value, a fixed fee and not based upon a percentage of volume or list price. Manufacturers could continue to negotiate price reductions with PBMs and Medicare Part D and Managed Medicaid plans if their reductions meet that criterion. The proposed rule represents a large step toward significantly altering the current rebate model in place with MCOs. We are in the process of evaluating the implications of the proposed rule on our operations and processes, as well as the infrastructure that will be required in order to implement the rule once it is finalized. There have also been state legislative efforts to address drug costs, which generally have focused on increasing transparency around drug costs or limiting drug prices. Certain state legislation has been subject to legal challenges. Adoption of new legislation regulating drug pricing at the federal or state level could further affect demand for, or pricing of, our products. 
 
 We believe medicines are the most efficient and effective use of healthcare dollars based on the value they deliver to the overall healthcare system. We will continue to work with lawmakers and advocate for solutions that effectively improve patient health outcomes, lower costs to the healthcare system, and ensure access to medicines within an efficient and affordable healthcare system. 
 
 There have been significant efforts at the federal and state levels to reform the healthcare system by enhancing access to healthcare, improving the delivery of healthcare and further rationalizing payment for healthcare. For example, we face uncertainties due to federal legislative and administrative efforts to repeal, substantially modify or invalidate some or all of the provisions of the ACA. For example, tax reform legislation enacted at the end of 2017 eliminates the tax penalty for individuals who do not maintain sufficient health insurance coverage beginning in 2019 (the so-called “individual mandate”). We anticipate continued Congressional interest in modifying provisions of the ACA, particularly given the recent ruling in Texas v. Azar to invalidate the law as unconstitutional. At this time, the law remains in effect pending appeals of the decision. Given the outcomes of the 2018 U.S. midterm elections with Democrats taking over the U.S. House of Representatives and Republicans growing their majority in the U.S. Senate, we believe it is unlikely Congress will find bipartisan consensus to advance any significant changes to the ACA until the legal process unfolds. The revenues generated for Pfizer by the health insurance exchanges and Medicaid expansion under the ACA are not material, so the impact of the change in law and similar recent administration actions is expected to be limited. Any future replacement, modification or repeal of the ACA may adversely affect our business and financial results, particularly if the legislation reduces incentives for employer-sponsored insurance coverage. As another example, the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018, which increased the discount we pay in the Medicare Part D “coverage gap” from 50% to 70%, will modestly increase our future Medicare Part D rebates. Any future healthcare reform efforts may adversely affect our business and financial results. 
 
 Pfizer continues to monitor the ongoing dialogue around drug pricing and will take necessary action accordingly. After deferring previously announced price increases in July 2018, Pfizer increased the list price of certain products (comprising about 10% of its entire drug portfolio) effective January 15, 2019. 
 
 The potential for additional pricing and access pressures in the commercial sector continues to be significant. Some employers, seeking to avoid the tax on high-cost health insurance in the ACA to be imposed in 2022, are already scaling back healthcare benefits and an increasing number are implementing high deductible benefit designs. This is a trend that is likely to continue. Private third-party payers, such as health plans, increasingly challenge pharmaceutical product pricing, which could result in lower prices, lower reimbursement rates and a reduction in demand for our products. Pricing pressures for our products may occur as a result of highly competitive insurance markets. Healthcare provider purchasers, directly or through group purchasing organizations, are seeking enhanced discounts or implementing more rigorous bidding or purchasing review processes. 
 
 Overall, there is increasing pressure on U.S. providers to deliver healthcare at a lower cost and to ensure that those expenditures deliver demonstrated value in terms of health outcomes. Longer term, we are seeing a shift in focus away from fee-for-service payments towards outcomes-based payments and risk-sharing arrangements that reward providers for cost reductions and improved patient outcomes. These new payment models can, at times, lead to lower prices for, and restricted access to, new medicines. At the same time, these models can also promote utilization of drugs by encouraging physicians to screen and diagnose and consider drugs as a means of forestalling more costly medical interventions. 
 
 Outside the U.S., governments, including the different EU Member States, Japan, China, Canada and South Korea, may use a variety of cost-containment measures for our pharmaceutical products, including price cuts, mandatory rebates, health technology assessments, forced localization as a condition of market access and international reference pricing (i.e., the practice of a country linking its regulated medicine prices to those of other countries). This international patchwork of price regulation and differing economic conditions and incomplete value assessments across countries has led to varying health outcomes and some third-party trade in our products between countries. 
 
 In particular, international reference pricing adds to the regional impact of price cuts in individual countries and hinders patient access and innovation. Price variations, exacerbated by international reference pricing systems, also have resulted from exchange rate fluctuations. The downward pricing pressure resulting from this dynamic can be expected to continue as a result of reforms to international reference pricing policies and measures targeting pharmaceuticals in some European countries. 
 
 In addition, several important multilateral organizations, such as the United Nations (UN), including the World Health Organization (WHO), and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), are increasing scrutiny of international pharmaceutical pricing through issuing reports and policy recommendations (e.g., 2016 UN High Level Panel Report on Access to Medicines ). Late in 2018, two new reports critical of the pharmaceutical industry’s pricing practices were published: OECD’s Pharmaceutical Innovation and Access to Medicines and WHO’s Pricing of Cancer Medicines and its Impacts . These reports and upcoming public forums focused on their recommendations will continue to exert additional pricing pressures. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 8 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 In response to the evolving U.S. and global healthcare spending landscape, we are continuing to work with health authorities, health technology assessment and quality measurement bodies and major U.S. payers throughout the product-development process to better understand how these entities value our compounds and products. Further, we are seeking to develop stronger internal capabilities focused on demonstrating the value of the medicines that we discover or develop, register and manufacture, by recognizing patterns of usage of our medicines and competitor medicines along with patterns of healthcare costs. 
 
 Regulatory Environment––Pipeline Productivity 
 
 The discovery and development of safe, effective new products, as well as the development of additional uses for existing products, are necessary for the continued strength of our businesses. We have encountered increasing regulatory scrutiny of drug safety and efficacy, even as we continue to gather safety and other data on our products, before and after the products have been launched. Our product lines must be replenished over time in order to offset revenue losses when products lose their market exclusivity, as well as to provide for earnings growth. We devote considerable resources to R&D activities. These activities involve a high degree of risk and cost and may take many years, and with respect to any specific R&D project, there can be no assurance that the development of any particular product candidate or new indication for an in-line product will achieve the desired clinical endpoints and safety profile, will be approved by regulators or will be successful commercially. 
 
 During the development of a product, we conduct clinical trials to provide data on the drug’s safety and efficacy to support the evaluation of its overall benefit-risk profile for a particular patient population. In addition, after a product has been approved and launched, we continue to monitor its safety as long as it is available to patients, and postmarketing trials may be conducted, including trials requested by regulators and trials that we do voluntarily to gain additional medical knowledge. For the entire life of the product, we collect safety data and report safety information to the FDA and other regulatory authorities. The FDA and regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions may evaluate potential safety concerns related to a product or a class of products and take regulatory actions in response, such as updating a product’s labeling, restricting the use of a product, communicating new safety information to the public, or, in rare cases, removing a product from the market. 
 
 Competition 
 
 Many of our prescription pharmaceutical products face competition in the form of branded or generic drugs or biosimilars that treat similar diseases or indications. For additional information, see the “Competition” section in Part I, ITEM 1, “Business” of our 2018 Form 10-K. 
 The Global Economic Environment 
 
 In addition to the industry-specific factors discussed above, we, like other businesses of our size, are exposed to the economic cycle, which impacts our biopharmaceutical operations globally. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Governments, corporations, and insurance companies, which provide insurance benefits to patients, have implemented increases in cost-sharing and restrictions on access to medicines, potentially causing patients to switch to generic or biosimilar products, delay treatments, skip doses or use less effective treatments. Government financing pressures can lead to negative pricing pressure in various markets where governments take an active role in setting prices, access criteria (e.g., through public or private health technology assessments), or other means of cost control. Examples include the different EU Member States, Japan, China, Canada, South Korea and a number of other international markets. The U.S. continues to maintain competitive insurance markets, but has also seen significant increases in patient cost-sharing and growing government influence as government programs continue to grow as a source of coverage. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Significant portions of our revenues, costs and expenses, as well as our substantial international net assets, are exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. We seek to manage our foreign exchange risk in part through operational means, including managing same-currency revenues in relation to same-currency costs and same-currency assets in relation to same-currency liabilities. Depending on market conditions, foreign exchange risk also is managed through the use of derivative financial instruments and foreign currency debt. As we operate in multiple foreign currencies, including the euro, the Japanese yen, the Chinese renminbi, the U.K. pound, the Canadian dollar and approximately 100 other currencies, changes in those currencies relative to the U.S. dollar will impact our revenues and expenses. If the U.S. dollar were to weaken against another currency, assuming all other variables remained constant, our revenues would increase, having a positive impact on earnings, and our overall expenses would increase, having a negative impact on earnings. Conversely, if the U.S. dollar were to strengthen against another currency, assuming all other variables remained constant, our revenues would decrease, having a negative impact on earnings, and our overall expenses would decrease, having a positive impact on earnings. Therefore, significant changes in foreign exchange rates can impact our results and our financial guidance. 
 The impact of possible currency devaluations in countries experiencing high inflation rates or significant exchange fluctuations, including Venezuela and Argentina, can impact our results and financial guidance . For further information about our exposure to foreign currency risk, see the “Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources” and the “Our Financial Guidance for 2019 ” sections of this Financial Review. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 In June 2016, the U.K. electorate voted in a referendum to leave the EU, which is commonly referred to as “Brexit”. In March 2017, the U.K. government formally notified the European Council of its intention to leave the EU after it triggered Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty to begin the two-year negotiation process establishing the terms of the exit and outlining the future relationship between the U.K. and the EU. Formal negotiations officially started in June 2017. This process continues to be highly complex and the end result of these negotiations may pose certain implications to our research, commercial and general business operations in the U.K. and the EU, including the approval and supply of our products. The EMA will be relocating from London, U.K. to Amsterdam, Netherlands by the scheduled date of Brexit at the end of March 2019. At present, it is still unclear whether and to what extent the U.K. will remain within or aligned to the EU system of medicines regulation, and/or what separate requirements will be imposed in the U.K. after it leaves the EU. However, both the U.K. and the EU have issued detailed guidance for the industry on how medicines, medical devices and clinical trials will be separately regulated in their respective territories in the event of a ‘hard Brexit’, meaning an outcome where no negotiated settlement is reached. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 9 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 We generated approximately 2% of our worldwide revenues from the U.K. in 2018 including the foreign currency exchange impact from the weakening U.K. pound relative to the U.S. dollar to date. We recognize that there are still significant uncertainties surrounding the ultimate resolution of Brexit negotiations, and we will continue to monitor any changes that may arise and assess their potential impact on our business. 
 Pfizer’s preparations are well advanced to make the changes necessary to meet EU legal requirements after the U.K. is no longer a member state, especially in the regulatory, research, manufacturing and supply chain areas. The aim is to ensure the continuity of supply to patients in Europe (EU and the U.K.) and other global markets impacted by these changes. The one-time costs of making these adaptations are currently estimated at approximately $100 million and are expected to be incurred between 2018 and 2021. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 On December 22, 2017, the U.S. enacted significant changes to U.S. tax law following the passage and signing of the TCJA. The TCJA is complex and significantly changes the U.S. corporate income tax system by, among other things, reducing the U.S. Federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, transitioning U.S. international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a territorial tax system and imposing a repatriation tax on deemed repatriated accumulated post-1986 earnings of foreign subsidiaries. For additional information, see the “Provision/(Benefit) for Taxes on Income” and “Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources” sections of this Financial Review and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 5A . Tax Matters: Taxes on Income from Continuing Operations. 
 
 Pfizer maintains a strong financial position while operating in a complex global environment. Due to our significant operating cash flows, financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we continue to believe that we have, and will maintain, the ability to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future. Our long-term debt is rated high quality by both S&P and Moody’s. As market conditions change, we continue to monitor our liquidity position. We have taken and will continue to take a conservative approach to our financial investments. Both short-term and long-term investments consist primarily of high-quality, highly liquid, well-diversified, available-for-sale debt securities. For further discussion of our financial condition and credit ratings, see the “Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources” section of this Financial Review. 
 
 These and other industry-wide factors that may affect our businesses should be considered along with information presented in the “Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results” section of this Financial Review and in Part I, ITEM 1A, “Risk Factors” of our 2018 Form 10-K. 
 Our Strategy 
 
 We believe that our medicines provide significant value for both healthcare providers and patients, not only from the improved treatment of diseases but also from a reduction in other healthcare costs, such as emergency room or hospitalization costs, as well as improvements in health, wellness and productivity. We continue to actively engage in dialogues about the value of our medicines and how we can best work with patients, physicians and payers to prevent and treat disease and improve outcomes. We continue to work within the current legal and pricing structures, as well as continue to review our pricing arrangements and contracting methods with payers, to maximize patient access and minimize any adverse impact on our revenues. We remain firmly committed to fulfilling our company’s purpose: Breakthroughs that change patients’ lives . By doing so, we expect to create value for the patients we serve and for our shareholders. 
 Organizing for Growth 
 Today Pfizer has what we believe is the best pipeline in our history and several new industry-leading medicines that position us well for future growth. Following the impact of the expected patent expiration of Lyrica in the U.S. in mid-2019, we expect to enter a period of significantly reduced revenue impact from patent expiries. This confluence of events has given us an opportunity to look at and refine how we organize our business to best achieve sustainable growth and to deliver our medicines and vaccines to the maximum number of people who need them. 
 At the beginning of our fiscal year 2019, we began to manage our commercial operations through a new global structure consisting of three businesses, each of which is led by a single manager—Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group (Biopharma), Upjohn and Pfizer’s Consumer Healthcare business. We designed this new global structure to take advantage of new growth opportunities driven by the evolving and unique dynamics of relevant markets. 
 Some additional information about each business follows: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Biopharma—a science-based innovative medicines business that includes our Innovative Health business units (except our Consumer Healthcare business), as well as a new Hospital business unit that commercializes our global portfolio of sterile injectable and anti-infective medicines. We also incorporated our biosimilar portfolio into our Oncology and Inflammation & Immunology therapeutic areas. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Upjohn—an off-patent branded and generic established medicines business, headquartered in China that includes 20 of our off-patent solid oral dose legacy brands including Lyrica, Lipitor, Norvasc, Viagra and Celebrex, as well as certain generic medicines. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Pfizer’s Consumer Healthcare business—an over-the-counter medicines business, which we announced on December 19, 2018 will be contributed to, and combined with, GSK’s consumer healthcare business to form a new consumer healthcare joint venture, of which we will own 32%. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 2C. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Arrangements, Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements, Equity-Method Investments and Privately Held Investment : Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale. 
 We also reorganized our R&D operations as part of our Organizing for Growth reorganization: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 WRD is renamed Worldwide Research, Development and Medical (WRDM) as we have created a new Worldwide Medical & Safety organization in WRD that incorporates the former Chief Medical Office as well as the Worldwide Safety function; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The R&D organization within the EH business has been integrated into the WRDM, GPD and Upjohn organizations, including moving biosimilars into WRDM and GPD and realigning them with the relevant therapeutic areas (e.g., Oncology and Inflammation & Immunology); 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The Regulatory function has been moved from the WRDM organization into the GPD organization; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Late-stage portfolio spend has been moved from IH to GPD and from EH to GPD and Upjohn. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 10 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 We re-aligned our commercial operations in 2019 for a number of reasons, including: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Bringing biosimilars into their therapeutic categories gives us the potential to leverage our R&D, regulatory and commercial infrastructure within the Biopharma business to more efficiently bring those assets to market; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Making a business unit that is solely focused on medicines that are used in hospitals can potentially bring greater focus and attention to serving those customers and developing those relationships; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Giving the Upjohn business more autonomy and a focus on maximizing the value of its products, particularly in emerging markets, gives it the opportunity to operate as a standalone business within Pfizer with the potential for sustainable modest growth; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 We believe this new structure better positions each business to achieve its growth potential as we transition to a period post-2020 where we expect higher and more sustained revenue growth due to declining LOEs and the potential of our late-stage pipeline. 
 Biopharma seeks to leverage a strong pipeline, organize around operational growth drivers, and capitalize on trends creating long-term growth opportunities, including: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 An aging global population that is generating increased demand for innovative medicines that address patients’ unmet needs; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Advances in both biological science and digital technology that are enhancing the delivery of breakthrough new medicines; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The increasingly significant role of hospitals in healthcare systems. 
 Urbanization and the rise of the middle class in emerging markets, particularly in Asia, provide growth opportunities for the Upjohn business. Our ability to work collaboratively within local markets and to be fast, focused and flexible is intended to position this business to seize these opportunities. Upjohn will have distinct and dedicated manufacturing, marketing, regulatory and, subject to limited exceptions, enabling functions that report directly into the business providing autonomy and positioning Upjohn to operate as a true stand-alone division. We created this new structure to, among other things, position Upjohn to optimize its distinct growth potential and provide us with the flexibility to access further opportunities to enhance value, which we continue to consider. 
 Results for 2018 and prior periods in our 2018 Form 10-K and in this 2018 Financial Report are reported on the basis under which we managed our business in 2018 and do not reflect the 2019 reorganization. Beginning with our first-quarter 2019 financial results, our financial reporting will reflect the new organizational structure. We are evaluating the impact to our operating segments and other costs and activities based on how the businesses are managed in 2019. 
 As we prepare for expected growth, we are focused on creating a simpler, more efficient organization by streamlining structures, process and governance within each business and the functions that support them. As our innovative pipeline matures with the anticipated progression of current trials and the initiation of new pivotal trials, we will need to increase our R&D investments. In addition, as our pipeline potentially delivers new commercialization opportunities, we will need to increase our investments in new-market-creation activities. We are also initiating an enterprise-wide digital effort to help speed up drug development, enhance patient and physician experiences and access and leverage technology and robotics to simplify and automate our processes. 
 In the fourth quarter of 2018, we took steps to simplify the organization, increase spans of control and reduce organizational layers, which impacted some managerial roles and responsibilities. The impacts of these voluntary and involuntary plans were recorded as a special termination benefit, as well as severance in the fourth quarter of 2018, and were reflected as Certain Significant Items and excluded from our non-GAAP measure of Adjusted Income. We also offered enhancements to certain employee benefits for a short period of time. The expenses related to these enhancements for certain employee benefits did not have a material impact on our 2018 results of operations and any expected future impact of these enhancements are reflected in the totality of our annual guidance for 2019. To partially offset the incremental cost increases of increased R&D investments and marketing activities in future periods, we expect to generate cost reduction opportunities, particularly in indirect SI&A. 
 
 Commercial Operations 
 
 From the second quarter of our 2016 fiscal year until the end of 2018, we managed our commercial operations through two distinct business segments: Pfizer Innovative Health (IH) and Pfizer Essential Health (EH). The IH and EH operating segments were each led by a single manager. Each operating segment had responsibility for its commercial activities and for certain IPR&D projects for new investigational products and additional indications for in-line products that generally have achieved proof-of-concept. Each business had a geographic footprint across developed and emerging markets. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 11 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Some additional information about our business segments as of December 31, 2018 (prior to our new 2019 commercial organizational re-alignment) follows: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 IH focused on developing and commercializing novel, value-creating medicines and vaccines that significantly improve patients’ lives, as well as products for consumer healthcare. Key therapeutic areas included internal medicine, vaccines, oncology, inflammation & immunology, rare disease and consumer healthcare. 
 
 
 
 EH included legacy brands that have lost or will soon lose market exclusivity in both developed and emerging markets, branded generics, generic sterile injectable products, biosimilars and select branded products including anti-infectives. EH also included an R&D organization, as well as our contract manufacturing business. Through February 2, 2017, EH also included HIS. 
 
 
 Leading brands included: - Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13 - Xeljanz - Eliquis - Lyrica (U.S., Japan and certain other markets) - Enbrel (outside the U.S. and Canada) - Ibrance - Xtandi - Chantix/Champix - Several OTC consumer healthcare products* 
 
 
 
 Leading brands included: - Lipitor - Norvasc - Lyrica (Europe, Russia, Turkey, Israel and Central Asia countries) - Celebrex - Viagra** - Inflectra/Remsima - Sulperazon - Several other sterile injectable products 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 According to Nicholas Hall’s retail sales data (based on moving annual total data through the third quarter of 2018), in 2018, our Consumer Healthcare business was the fifth-largest branded multi-national, OTC consumer healthcare business in the world and produced two of the ten largest selling consumer healthcare brands ( Centrum and Advil ) in the world. 
 
 
 
 
 
 ** 
 
 Viagra lost exclusivity in the U.S. in December 2017. In 2018, revenues for Viagra in the U.S. and Canada, which were reported in IH through 2017, were reported in EH (which reported all other Viagra revenues excluding the U.S. and Canada through 2017). Therefore, in 2018, total Viagra worldwide revenues were reported in EH. 
 For additional information about the 2018 performance of each of our operating segments, see the “Analysis of Operating Segment Information” section of this Financial Review. 
 Description of Research and Development Operations 
 
 The following description of R&D operations reflects operations as of December 31, 2018 . 
 Innovation is critical to the success of our company, and drug discovery and development is time-consuming, expensive and unpredictable. Our goal is to discover, develop and bring to market innovative products that address major unmet medical needs. Our R&D priorities include: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 delivering a pipeline of differentiated therapies and vaccines with the greatest medical and commercial potential; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 advancing our capabilities that can position Pfizer for long-term leadership; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 creating new models for biomedical collaboration that will expedite the pace of innovation and productivity. 
 To that end, our R&D primarily focuses on: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Inflammation and Immunology ; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Internal Medicine ; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Oncology ; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Rare Diseases ; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Vaccines ; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Biosimilars. 
 In January 2018, we announced our decision to end internal neuroscience discovery and early development efforts and re-allocate funding to other areas where we have stronger scientific leadership. The development of tanezumab and potential treatments for rare neuromuscular disorders is not impacted by this decision. In June 2018, we announced our plan to invest up to $600 million in biotechnology and other emerging growth companies through Pfizer Ventures, our venture investment vehicle. In September 2018, we and Bain Capital entered into a transaction to create a new biopharmaceutical company, Cerevel, to continue development of a portfolio of clinical and preclinical stage neuroscience assets primarily targeting disorders of the central nervous system, including Parkinson’s disease, epilepsy, Alzheimer’s disease, schizophrenia and addiction. For additional information on the transaction with Bain Capital, see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 2B. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Arrangements, Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements, Equity-Method Investments and Privately Held Investment: Divestitures . 
 
 In 2018, we continued to strengthen our global R&D organization and pursue strategies intended to improve innovation and overall productivity in R&D to achieve a sustainable pipeline that is positioned to deliver value in the near term and over time. Our R&D spending was conducted through a number of matrix organizations: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Research Units within our WRD organization were generally responsible for research and early-stage development assets for our IH business (assets that have not yet achieved proof-of-concept). Our Research Units were organized by therapeutic area to enhance flexibility, cohesiveness and focus. Because of our structure, we were able to rapidly redeploy resources within a Research Unit between various projects as necessary because in many instances the workforce shares similar skills, expertise and/or focus. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 12 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Our R&D organization within the EH business supported the large base of EH products and helped develop potential new sterile injectable drugs and therapeutic solutions, as well as biosimilars. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Our GPD organization, a unified center for late-stage development for our innovative products that was generally responsible for the operational execution of clinical trials for both early-stage assets in the WRD portfolio as well as late-stage assets in the Innovative portfolio. For WRD assets, GPD worked in close collaboration with the Early Clinical Development group, which has expertise in various disciplines such as Biostatistics, Clinical Pharmacology and Digital Medicine. GPD helped enable more efficient and effective development and enhance our ability to accelerate and progress assets through our pipeline. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Our science-based and other platform-services organizations, where a significant portion of our R&D spending occurred, provided technical expertise and other services to the various R&D projects, and were organized into science-based functions (which were part of our WRD organization), such as Pharmaceutical Sciences, Medicine Design, Regulatory and Drug Safety, and non-science-based functions, such as Facilities, Business Technology and Finance. As a result, within each of these functions, we were able to migrate resources among projects, candidates and/or targets in any therapeutic area and in most phases of development, allowing us to react quickly in response to evolving needs. 
 
 We manage R&D operations on a total-company basis through our matrix organizations described above. Specifically, a single committee with representation from the R&D groups and the IH commercial organization was accountable for aligning resources among all of our WRD, GPD and IH R&D projects and for seeking to ensure optimal capital allocation across the Innovative R&D portfolio. We believe that this approach also served to maximize accountability and flexibility. Our EH R&D organization managed its resources separately from the WRD and GPD organizations. 
 
 Generally, we do not disaggregate total R&D expense by development phase or by therapeutic area since, as described above, we do not manage a significant portion of our R&D operations by development phase or by therapeutic area. Further, as we are able to adjust a significant portion of our spending quickly, as conditions change, we believe that any prior-period information about R&D expense by development phase or by therapeutic area would not necessarily be representative of future spending. 
 
 While a significant portion of R&D is done internally, we continue to seek out promising chemical and biological lead molecules and innovative technologies developed by third parties to incorporate into our discovery and development processes or projects, as well as our product lines, by entering into collaboration, alliance and license agreements with other companies, as well as leveraging acquisitions and equity- or debt-based investments. These agreements enable us to co-develop, license or acquire promising compounds, technologies or capabilities. We also enter into agreements pursuant to which a third party agrees to fund a portion of the development costs of one or more of our pipeline products in exchange for rights to receive potential milestone payments, revenue sharing payments, profit sharing payments and/or royalties. Collaboration, alliance, license and funding agreements and equity- or debt-based investments allow us to share risk and cost and to access external scientific and technological expertise, and provide us the opportunity to advance our own products as well as the in-licensed or acquired products. 
 
 For additional information about R&D by operating segment, see the “Analysis of Operating Segment Information” section of this Financial Review. For additional information about our pending new drug applications and supplemental filings, see the “Analysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income––Product Developments––Biopharmaceutical” section of this Financial Review. For additional information about recent transactions and strategic investments that we believe have the potential to advance our pipeline, see the “Our Business Development Initiatives” section of this Financial Review. 
 Intellectual Property Rights 
 We continue to aggressively defend our patent rights whenever appropriate against increasingly aggressive infringement, and we will continue to support efforts that strengthen worldwide recognition of patent rights while taking necessary steps to ensure appropriate patient access. In addition, we will continue to employ innovative approaches designed to prevent counterfeit pharmaceuticals from entering the supply chain and to achieve greater control over the distribution of our products, and we will continue to participate in the generics market for our products, whenever appropriate, once they lose exclusivity. Also, the pursuit of valid business opportunities may require us to challenge intellectual property rights held by other companies that we believe were improperly granted. Such challenges may include negotiation and litigation, which may not always be successful. For additional information about our current efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights and certain other patent proceedings, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 17A1. Contingencies and Certain Commitments : Legal Proceedings –– Patent Litigation. For information on risks related to patent protection and intellectual property claims by third parties, see Part I, ITEM 1A, “Risk Factors––Risks Related to Intellectual Property” in our 2018 Form 10-K. 
 Capital Allocation and Expense Management 
 We seek to maintain a strong balance sheet and robust liquidity so that we continue to have the financial resources necessary to take advantage of prudent commercial, research and business development opportunities and to directly enhance shareholder value through share repurchases and dividends. For additional information about our financial condition, liquidity, capital resources, share repurchases (including accelerated share repurchases) and dividends, see the “Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources” section of this Financial Review. For additional information about our recent business development activities, see the “Our Business Development Initiatives” section of this Financial Review. 
 In December 2018 , our Board of Directors declared a first-quarter 2019 dividend of $0.36 per share, an increase from the $0.34 per-share quarterly dividend paid during 2018 . For additional information, see the “Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources” section of this Financial Review and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 12. Equity. 
 
 We remain focused on achieving an appropriate cost structure for our company. For additional information about our cost-reduction and productivity initiatives, see the “Costs and Expenses––Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 13 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Reduction/Productivity Initiatives” section of this Financial Review and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 3 . Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives. 
 
 Increasing Investment in the U.S. ––After evaluating the expected positive net impact the TCJA will have on us, in early 2018, we decided to take several actions: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Over the five-year period from 2018 through 2022, we plan to invest approximately $5.0 billion in capital projects in the U.S., including the strengthening of our manufacturing presence in the U.S. As part of this plan, in July 2018, we announced that we will increase our commitment to U.S. manufacturing with a $465 million investment to build one of the most technically advanced sterile injectable pharmaceutical production facilities in the world in Portage, Michigan. This U.S. investment will strengthen our capability to produce and supply critical, life-saving injectable medicines for patients around the world. Known as Modular Aseptic Processing, the new, multi-story, 400,000-square-foot production facility will also support the area economy by creating an estimated 450 new jobs over the next several years. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 We made a $500 million voluntary contribution to the U.S. Pfizer Consolidated Pension Plan in February 2018. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 In the fourth quarter of 2017, we made a $200 million charitable contribution to the Pfizer Foundation, an organization that provides grant and investment funding to support organizations and social entrepreneurs in an effort to improve healthcare delivery. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 In the first quarter of 2018, we paid a special, one-time bonus to virtually all Pfizer colleagues, excluding executives, of $119 million in the aggregate. 
 
 Our Business Development Initiatives 
 We are committed to capitalizing on growth opportunities by advancing our own pipeline and maximizing the value of our in-line products, as well as through various forms of business development, which can include alliances, licenses, joint ventures, collaborations, equity- or debt-based investments, dispositions, mergers and acquisitions. We view our business development activity as an enabler of our strategies, and we seek to generate earnings growth and enhance shareholder value by pursuing a disciplined, strategic and financial approach to evaluating business development opportunities. We continue to evaluate business development transactions that have the potential to strengthen our businesses and their capabilities, such as our acquisitions of Hospira, Medivation, Anacor and AstraZeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business, as well as collaborations, and alliance and license agreements with other companies. We assess our businesses, assets and scientific capabilities/portfolio as part of our regular, ongoing portfolio review process and also continue to consider business development activities that will advance our businesses. 
 
 For additional information on our business development activities, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ––Note 2. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Arrangements, Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements, Equity-Method Investments and Privately Held Investment . 
 The more significant recent transactions and events are described below: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Agreement to Form a New Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture (IH) ––On December 19, 2018, we announced that we entered into a definitive agreement with GSK under which we and GSK agreed to combine our respective consumer healthcare businesses into a new consumer healthcare joint venture that will operate globally under the GSK Consumer Healthcare name. The joint venture is expected to be a category leader in pain relief, respiratory, vitamin and mineral supplements, digestive health, skin health and therapeutic oral health and will be the largest global OTC consumer healthcare business. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Sale of Hospira Infusion Systems Net Assets to ICU Medical, Inc. (EH) ––On February 3, 2017, we completed the sale of our global infusion systems net assets, HIS, to ICU Medical. In connection with this transaction, we recognized pre-tax income of $1 million in 2018 and pre-tax losses of $55 million in 2017 in Other (income)/deductions––net, representing adjustments to amounts previously recorded in 2016 to write down the HIS net assets to fair value less costs to sell. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Acquisition of AstraZeneca’s Small Molecule Anti-Infectives Business (EH) ––On December 22, 2016, which fell in the first fiscal quarter of 2017 for our international operations, we acquired the development and commercialization rights to AstraZeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business, primarily outside the U.S. The total fair value of the consideration transferred for this business was approximately $1,040 million , inclusive of cash paid and the fair value of contingent consideration. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Acquisition of Medivation, Inc. (IH) ––On September 28, 2016, we acquired Medivation for $81.50 per share. The total fair value of consideration transferred for Medivation was approximately $14.3 billion in cash ( $13.9 billion , net of cash acquired). Medivation’s portfolio includes Xtandi (enzalutamide), an androgen receptor inhibitor that blocks multiple steps in the androgen receptor signaling pathway within tumor cells, and talazoparib, which was approved by the FDA in October 2018, under the trade name Talzenna, for the treatment of adults with germline BRCA-mutated HER2-negative locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer and is currently in development for other types of cancer. Xtandi is being developed and commercialized through a collaboration with Astellas. Astellas has exclusive commercialization rights for Xtandi outside the U.S. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Acquisition of Bamboo Therapeutics, Inc. (IH) –– On August 1, 2016, we acquired all the remaining equity in Bamboo, a privately-held biotechnology company focused on developing gene therapies for the potential treatment of patients with certain rare diseases relating to neuromuscular conditions and those affecting the central nervous system, for $150 million plus potential milestone payments of up to $495 million contingent upon the progression of key assets through development, regulatory approval and commercialization. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Acquisition of Anacor Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (IH) –– On June 24, 2016, we acquired Anacor for $99.25 per share. The total fair value of consideration transferred for Anacor was approximately $4.9 billion in cash ( $4.5 billion net of cash acquired) plus $698 million debt assumed. Anacor’s crisaborole, a non-steroidal topical PDE-4 inhibitor with anti-inflammatory properties, was approved by the FDA in December 2016 under the trade name, Eucrisa , for the treatment of mild-to-moderate atopic dermatitis in patients two years of age and older, commonly referred to as a type of eczema. Anacor also holds the rights to Kerydin, a topical treatment for onychomycosis (toenail fungus) that is distributed and commercialized by Sandoz in the U.S. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 14 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Research and Development Arrangement with NovaQuest Co-Investment Fund II, L.P. –– On November 1, 2016, we announced the discontinuation of the global clinical development program for bococizumab. During December 2016, $31.3 million was refunded to NovaQuest representing amounts NovaQuest prepaid for development costs (under the May 2016 agreement described below) that were not used for program expenses due to the discontinuation of the development program. No additional payments have been or are expected to be received from or paid to NovaQuest with respect to this agreement, which was terminated effective as of November 18, 2016. 
 In May 2016, our agreement with NovaQuest became effective, under which NovaQuest agreed to fund up to $250 million in development costs related to certain Phase 3 clinical trials of Pfizer’s bococizumab compound and Pfizer agreed to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop and obtain regulatory approvals for such compound. NovaQuest’s development funding was expected to cover up to 40% of the development costs and was to be received over five quarters during 2016 and 2017. As there was a substantive and genuine transfer of risk to NovaQuest, the development funding applicable to program expenses during 2016 was recognized as an obligation to perform contractual services and therefore has been recognized as a reduction of Research and development expenses as incurred. The reduction to Research and development expenses for 2016 totaled $180.3 million . 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Research and Development Arrangement with NovaQuest Co-Investment Fund V, L.P. –– In April 2016, Pfizer entered into an agreement with NovaQuest under which NovaQuest would fund up to $200 million in development costs related to certain Phase 3 clinical trials of Pfizer’s rivipansel compound and Pfizer will use commercially reasonable efforts to develop and obtain regulatory approvals for such compound. NovaQuest’s development funding is expected to cover up to 100% of the development costs and will be received over approximately 13 quarters from 2016 through the second quarter of 2019 after which Pfizer will be responsible for the remaining development costs. As there is a substantive and genuine transfer of risk to NovaQuest, the development funding is recognized by us as an obligation to perform contractual services and therefore is a reduction of Research and development expenses as incurred. The reduction to Research and development expenses totaled $57.6 million for 2018, $72.1 million for 2017 and $46.6 million for 2016. Following potential regulatory approval, NovaQuest will be eligible to receive a combination of fixed milestone payments of up to approximately $267 million in total, based on achievement of first commercial sale and certain levels of cumulative net sales as well as royalties on rivipansel net sales over approximately eight years. Fixed sales-based milestone payments will be recorded as intangible assets and amortized to Amortization of intangible assets over the estimated commercial life of the rivipansel product and royalties on net sales will be recorded as Cost of sales when incurred. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Research and Development Arrangement with RPI Finance Trust –– In January 2016, Pfizer entered into an agreement with RPI, a subsidiary of Royalty Pharma, under which RPI would fund up to $300 million in development costs related to certain Phase 3 clinical trials of Pfizer’s Ibrance (palbociclib) product primarily for adjuvant treatment of hormone receptor positive early breast cancer (the Indication). RPI’s development funding is expected to cover up to 100% of the costs primarily for the applicable clinical trials until the second quarter of 2020 after which Pfizer will be responsible for the remaining cost of the trials. As there is a substantive and genuine transfer of risk to RPI, the development funding is recognized by us as an obligation to perform contractual services and therefore is a reduction of Research and development expenses as incurred. The reduction to Research and development expenses totaled $99.3 million in 2018, $75.6 million for 2017 and $44.9 million for 2016. If successful and upon approval of Ibrance in the U.S. or certain major markets in the EU for the Indication based on the applicable clinical trials, RPI will be eligible to receive a combination of approval-based fixed milestone payments of up to $250 million dependent upon results of the clinical trials and royalties on certain Ibrance sales over approximately seven years. Fixed milestone payments due upon approval will be recorded as intangible assets and amortized to Amortization of intangible assets over the estimated commercial life of the Ibrance product and sales-based royalties will be recorded as Cost of sales when incurred. 
 
 Our Financial Guidance for 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following table provides our financial guidance for full-year 2019 (a), (b) : 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 $52.0 to $54.0 billion 
 
 
 Adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenues 
 
 20.8% to 21.8% 
 
 
 Adjusted selling, informational and administrative expenses 
 
 $13.5 to $14.5 billion 
 
 
 Adjusted research and development expenses 
 
 $7.8 to $8.3 billion 
 
 
 Adjusted other (income)/deductions 
 
 Approximately $100 million of income 
 
 
 Effective tax rate on adjusted income 
 
 Approximately 16.0% 
 
 
 Adjusted diluted EPS 
 
 $2.82 to $2.92 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 The 2019 financial guidance reflects the following: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 A full year of revenue and expense contributions from Pfizer’s Consumer Healthcare business. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Does not assume the completion of any business development transactions not completed as of December 31, 2018 , including any one-time upfront payments associated with such transactions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Financial guidance for Adjusted other (income)/deductions and Adjusted diluted EPS now excludes the impact of gains and losses on investments in equity securities. In 2018, Pfizer’s 2018 financial results included net gains on investments in equity securities, which favorably impacted Adjusted other (income)/deductions by $586 million and Adjusted diluted EPS (2) by approximately $0.08 in 2018. Beginning In 2019, we will exclude the gains and losses from equity securities from our measure of Adjusted income because of their inherent volatility, which we do not control and cannot predict with any level of certainty and because we do not believe that including these gains and losses assists investors in understanding our business or is reflective of our core operations and business. For example, we contributed assets related to our allogeneic CAR T therapy to Allogene and received equity securities. We will restate our Adjusted income and Adjusted diluted EPS for prior periods for consistency with our 2019 presentation. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Reflects an anticipated negative revenue impact of $2.6 billion due to recent and expected generic and biosimilar competition for certain products that have recently lost or are anticipated to soon lose patent protection. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Exchange rates assumed are as of mid-January 2019. Reflects the anticipated unfavorable impact of approximately $0.9 billion on revenues and approximately $0.06 on adjusted diluted EPS as a result of changes in foreign exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar compared to foreign exchange rates from 2018. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Guidance for adjusted diluted EPS assumes diluted weighted-average shares outstanding of approximately 5.7 billion shares, which reflects share repurchases totaling $12.2 billion in 2018 and the weighted-average impact of an anticipated approximately $9 billion of share repurchases in 2019 , which 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 15 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 have been completed through February 28, 2019. Dilution related to share-based employee compensation programs is currently expected to offset the reduction in shares associated with these share repurchases by approximately half. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 For an understanding of Adjusted income and its components and Adjusted diluted EPS (all of which are non-GAAP financial measures), see the “Non-GAAP Financial Measure (Adjusted Income)” section of this Financial Review. 
 Pfizer does not provide guidance for GAAP Reported financial measures (other than revenues) or a reconciliation of forward-looking non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP Reported financial measures on a forward-looking basis because it is unable to predict with reasonable certainty the ultimate outcome of pending litigation, unusual gains and losses, acquisition-related expenses, net gains or losses on equity securities and potential future asset impairments without unreasonable effort. These items are uncertain, depend on various factors, and could have a material impact on GAAP Reported results for the guidance period. 
 For information about our actual costs and anticipated costs and cost savings associated with our three-year cost-reduction initiative entered into in the fourth quarter of 2016, the Hospira acquisition, our recent business development activities, and global commercial structure, see the “Costs and Expenses––Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives” section of this Financial Review and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 3 . Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives. 
 
 Our 2019 financial guidance is subject to a number of factors and uncertainties as described in the “Our Operating Environment”, “The Global Economic Environment”, “Our Strategy” and “Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results” sections of this Financial Review; and Part I, ITEM 1A, “Risk Factors” of our 2018 Form 10-K. 
 
 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND APPLICATION OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS 
 
 For a description of our significant accounting policies, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 1. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies . Of these policies, the following are considered critical to an understanding of our consolidated financial statements as they require the application of the most subjective and the most complex judgments: (i) Acquisitions (Note 1D); (ii) Fair Value (Note 1E); (iii) Revenues (Notes 1B and 1G); (iv) Asset Impairments (Note 1L); (v) Tax Assets and Liabilities and Income Tax Contingencies (Note 1P); (vi) Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans (Note 1Q); and (vii) Legal and Environmental Contingencies (Note 1R). 
 
 Following is a discussion about the critical accounting estimates and assumptions impacting our consolidated financial statements. See also Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 1C. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies: Estimates and Assumptions for a discussion about the risks associated with estimates and assumptions. 
 
 Acquisitions and Fair Value 
 
 For a discussion about the application of fair value to our recent acquisitions, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 2A. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Arrangements, Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements, Equity-Method Investments and Privately Held Investment: Acquisitions . 
 
 For a discussion about the application of fair value to our investments, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 7A. Financial Instruments : Fair Value Measurements . 
 
 For a discussion about the application of fair value to our benefit plan assets, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 11D. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans and Defined Contribution Plans: Plan Assets . 
 
 For a discussion about the application of fair value to our asset impairment reviews, see “Asset Impairment Reviews” below. 
 
 Revenues 
 
 Our gross product revenues are subject to a variety of deductions, which generally are estimated and recorded in the same period that the revenues are recognized. Such variable consideration represents chargebacks, rebates, sales allowances and sales returns. These deductions represent estimates of the related obligations and, as such, knowledge and judgment is required when estimating the impact of these revenue deductions on gross sales for a reporting period. 
 
 Historically, our adjustments of estimates, to reflect actual results or updated expectations, have not been material to our overall business. On a quarterly basis, our adjustments of estimates to reflect actual results generally have been less than 1% of revenues, and have resulted in either a net increase or a net decrease in revenues. Product-specific rebates, however, can have a significant impact on year-over-year individual product growth trends. If any of our ratios, factors, assessments, experiences or judgments are not indicative or accurate predictors of our future experience, our results could be materially affected. The sensitivity of our estimates can vary by program, type of customer and geographic location. However, estimates associated with U.S. Medicare, Medicaid and performance-based contract rebates are most at risk for material adjustment because of the extensive time delay between the recording of the accrual and its ultimate settlement, an interval that can generally range up to one year. Because of this time lag, in any given quarter, our adjustments to actual can incorporate revisions of several prior quarters. 
 
 Asset Impairment Reviews 
 
 We review all of our long-lived assets for impairment indicators throughout the year. We perform impairment testing for indefinite-lived intangible assets and goodwill at least annually and for all other long-lived assets whenever impairment indicators are present. When necessary, we record charges for impairments of long-lived assets for the amount by which the fair value is less than the carrying value of these assets. Our impairment review processes are described in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 1L. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies: Amortization of Intangible Assets, Depreciation and Certain Long-Lived Assets. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 16 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Examples of events or circumstances that may be indicative of impairment include: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 A significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate that could affect the value of the asset. For example, a successful challenge of our patent rights would likely result in generic competition earlier than expected. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 A significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used. For example, restrictions imposed by the FDA or other regulatory authorities could affect our ability to manufacture or sell a product. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 A projection or forecast that indicates losses or reduced profits associated with an asset. This could result, for example, from a change in a government reimbursement program that results in an inability to sustain projected product revenues and profitability. This also could result from the introduction of a competitor’s product that results in a significant loss of market share or the inability to achieve the previously projected revenue growth, as well as the lack of acceptance of a product by patients, physicians and payers. For IPR&D projects, this could result from, among other things, a change in outlook based on clinical trial data, a delay in the projected launch date or additional expenditures to commercialize the product. 
 
 Identifiable Intangible Assets 
 
 As a result of our identifiable intangible asset impairment review work, we recognized a number of impairments of identifiable intangible assets for the years ended December 31, 2018 , 2017 and 2016 . See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 4. Other (Income)/Deductions — Net. 
 When we are required to determine the fair value of intangible assets other than goodwill, we use an income approach, specifically the discounted cash flow method. We start with a forecast of all the expected net cash flows associated with the asset, which includes the application of a terminal value for indefinite-lived assets, and then we apply an asset-specific discount rate to arrive at a net present value amount. Some of the more significant estimates and assumptions inherent in this approach include: the amount and timing of the projected net cash flows, which includes the expected impact of competitive, legal and/or regulatory forces on the projections and the impact of technological risk associated with IPR&D assets, as well as the selection of a long-term growth rate; the discount rate, which seeks to reflect the various risks inherent in the projected cash flows; and the tax rate, which seeks to incorporate the geographic diversity of the projected cash flows. 
 
 While all intangible assets other than goodwill can face events and circumstances that can lead to impairment, in general, intangible assets other than goodwill that are most at risk of impairment include IPR&D assets (approximately $2.2 billion as of December 31, 2018 ) and newly acquired or recently impaired indefinite-lived brand assets. IPR&D assets are high-risk assets, as R&D is an inherently risky activity. Newly acquired and recently impaired indefinite-lived assets are more vulnerable to impairment as the assets are recorded at fair value and are then subsequently measured at the lower of fair value or carrying value at the end of each reporting period. As such, immediately after acquisition or impairment, even small declines in the outlook for these assets can negatively impact our ability to recover the carrying value and can result in an impairment charge. 
 
 Goodwill 
 
 As a result of our goodwill impairment review work, we concluded that none of our goodwill was impaired as of December 31, 2018 , and we do not believe the risk of impairment is significant at this time. 
 
 We first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. Qualitative factors that we consider include, for example, macroeconomic and industry conditions, overall financial performance and other relevant entity-specific events. If we conclude that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, we then perform a quantitative fair value test. 
 
 When we are required to determine the fair value of a reporting unit, as appropriate for the individual reporting unit, we mainly use the income approach but we may also use the market approach, or a weighted-average combination of both approaches. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The income approach is a forward-looking approach to estimating fair value and relies primarily on internal forecasts. Within the income approach, the method that we use is the discounted cash flow method. We start with a forecast of all the expected net cash flows associated with the reporting unit, which includes the application of a terminal value, and then we apply a reporting unit-specific discount rate to arrive at a net present value amount. Some of the more significant estimates and assumptions inherent in this approach include: the amount and timing of the projected net cash flows, which includes the expected impact of technological risk and competitive, legal and/or regulatory forces on the projections, as well as the selection of a long-term growth rate; the discount rate, which seeks to reflect the various risks inherent in the projected cash flows; and the tax rate, which seeks to incorporate the geographic diversity of the projected cash flows. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The market approach is a historical approach to estimating fair value and relies primarily on external information. Within the market approach are two methods that we may use: 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 Guideline public company method—this method employs market multiples derived from market prices of stocks of companies that are engaged in the same or similar lines of business and that are actively traded on a free and open market and the application of the identified multiples to the corresponding measure of our reporting unit’s financial performance. 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 Guideline transaction method—this method relies on pricing multiples derived from transactions of significant interests in companies engaged in the same or similar lines of business and the application of the identified multiples to the corresponding measure of our reporting unit’s financial performance. 
 The market approach is only appropriate when the available external information is robust and deemed to be a reliable proxy for the specific reporting unit being valued; however, these assessments may prove to be incomplete or inaccurate. Some of the more significant estimates and assumptions inherent in this approach include: the selection of appropriate guideline companies and transactions and the determination of applicable premiums and discounts based on any differences in ownership percentages, ownership rights, business ownership forms or marketability between the reporting unit and the guideline companies and transactions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 17 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 For all of our reporting units, there are a number of future events and factors that may impact future results and that could potentially have an impact on the outcome of subsequent goodwill impairment testing. For a list of these factors, see the “Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results” section of this Financial Review and Part I, ITEM 1A, “Risk Factors” in our 2018 Form 10-K. 
 Benefit Plans 
 
 The majority of our employees worldwide are covered by defined benefit pension plans, defined contribution plans or both. In the U.S., we sponsor both IRC-qualified and supplemental (non-qualified) defined benefit plans and defined contribution plans, as well as other postretirement benefit plans consisting primarily of medical insurance for retirees and their eligible dependents. 
 
 The accounting for benefit plans is highly dependent on actuarial estimates, assumptions and calculations, which can result from a complex series of judgments about future events and uncertainties. The assumptions and actuarial estimates required to estimate the net employee benefit obligations for the defined benefit and postretirement plans include the discount rate; expected salary increases; certain employee-related factors, such as turnover, retirement age and mortality (life expectancy); expected return on plan assets; and healthcare cost trend rates. 
 
 Effective January 1, 2018, accruals for future benefits under the Pfizer Consolidated Pension Plan (our largest U.S. defined benefit plan) and the defined benefit section of the Pfizer Group Pension Scheme (our largest pension plan in the U.K.) were frozen and resulted in elimination of future service costs for the plans. The Pfizer defined contribution savings plan provides additional annual contributions to those previously accruing benefits under the Pfizer Consolidated Pension Plan and active members of the Pfizer Group Pension Scheme started accruing benefits under the defined contribution section of that plan. 
 
 As of December 31, 2018 , the noncurrent portion of our pension benefit obligations, net, and our postretirement benefit obligations, net decreased, in the aggregate, by approximately $747 million compared to December 31, 2017 . The decrease reflects, among other things, the $500 million voluntary contribution we made to the U.S. Pfizer Consolidated Pension Plan in February 2018 and an increase in the discount rate used in the measurement of plan obligations, partially offset by the decrease in the actual returns on plan assets. 
 
 Our assumptions reflect our historical experiences and our judgment regarding future expectations that have been deemed reasonable by management. The judgments made in determining the costs of our benefit plans can materially impact our results of operations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following table provides (i) at the end of each year, the expected annual rate of return on plan assets for the following year, (ii) the actual annual rate of return on plan assets achieved in each year, and (iii) the weighted-average discount rate used to measure the benefit obligations at the end of each year for our U.S. qualified pension plans and our international pension plans (a) : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 U.S. Qualified Pension Plans 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Expected annual rate of return on plan assets 
 
 
 
 7.2 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 7.5 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 8.0 
 
 % 
 
 
 Actual annual rate of return on plan assets 
 
 
 
 (5.3 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 16.2 
 
 
 
 
 
 8.1 
 
 
 
 
 Discount rate used to measure the plan obligations 
 
 
 
 4.4 
 
 
 
 
 
 3.8 
 
 
 
 
 
 4.3 
 
 
 
 
 International Pension Plans 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Expected annual rate of return on plan assets 
 
 
 
 3.9 
 
 
 
 
 
 4.4 
 
 
 
 
 
 4.7 
 
 
 
 
 Actual annual rate of return on plan assets 
 
 
 
 (0.9 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 10.3 
 
 
 
 
 
 9.3 
 
 
 
 
 Discount rate used to measure the plan obligations 
 
 
 
 2.5 
 
 
 
 
 
 2.3 
 
 
 
 
 
 2.4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 For detailed assumptions associated with our benefit plans, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 11B. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans and Defined Contribution Plans: Actuarial Assumptions. 
 Expected Annual Rate of Return on Plan Assets 
 
 The assumptions for the expected annual rate of return on all of our plan assets reflect our actual historical return experience and our long-term assessment of forward-looking return expectations by asset classes, which is used to develop a weighted-average expected return based on the implementation of our targeted asset allocation in our respective plans. 
 
 The expected annual rate of return on plan assets for our U.S. plans and the majority of our international plans is applied to the fair value of plan assets at each year-end and the resulting amount is reflected in our net periodic benefit costs in the following year. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following table illustrates the sensitivity of net periodic benefit costs to a 50 basis point decline in our assumption for the expected annual rate of return on plan assets, holding all other assumptions constant (in millions, pre-tax): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Change 
 
 
 
 Increase in 2019 Net Periodic Benefit Costs 
 
 
 Assumption 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Expected annual rate of return on plan assets 
 
 
 
 50 basis point decline 
 
 
 
 $104 
 
 The actual return on plan assets resulted in a net loss on our plan assets of approximately $895 million during 2018 . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 18 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Discount Rate Used to Measure Plan Obligations 
 
 The weighted-average discount rate used to measure the plan obligations for our U.S. defined benefit plans is determined at least annually and evaluated and modified, as required, to reflect the prevailing market rate of a portfolio of high-quality fixed income investments, rated AA/Aa or better, that reflect the rates at which the pension benefits could be effectively settled. The discount rate used to measure the plan obligations for our international plans is determined at least annually by reference to investment grade corporate bonds, rated AA/Aa or better, including, when there is sufficient data, a yield-curve approach. These discount rate determinations are made in consideration of local requirements. 
 
 The measurement of the plan obligations at the end of the year will affect the amount of service cost, interest cost and amortization expense reflected in our net periodic benefit costs in the following year. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following table illustrates the sensitivity of net periodic benefit costs and benefit obligations to a 10 basis point decline in our assumption for the discount rate, holding all other assumptions constant (in millions, pre-tax): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Change 
 
 
 
 Increase in 2019 Net Periodic Benefit Costs 
 
 
 
 2018 Benefit Obligations 
 
 
 Assumption 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Increase 
 
 
 
 Increase 
 
 
 Discount rate 
 
 
 
 10 basis point decline 
 
 
 
 $13 
 
 
 
 $417 
 
 The change in the discount rates used in measuring our plan obligations as of December 31, 2018 resulted in a decrease in the measurement of our aggregate plan obligations by approximately $1.5 billion . 
 Income Tax Assets and Liabilities 
 
 In the fourth quarter of 2017, we recorded an estimate of certain tax effects of the TCJA, including (i) the impact on deferred tax assets and liabilities from the reduction in the U.S. Federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% , (ii) the impact on valuation allowances and other state income tax considerations, (iii) a repatriation tax liability on accumulated post-1986 foreign earnings for which we plan to elect, with the filing of our 2018 U.S. Federal Consolidated Income Tax Return, payment over eight years through 2026 that is reported in Other taxes payable in our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2017, and (iv) deferred taxes on basis differences expected to give rise to future taxes on global intangible low-taxed income. In addition, we had provided deferred tax liabilities in the past on foreign earnings that were not indefinitely reinvested. As a result of the TCJA, in the fourth quarter of 2017, we reversed an estimate of the deferred taxes that are no longer expected to be needed due to the change to the territorial tax system. 
 The TCJA subjects a U.S. shareholder to current tax on global intangible low-taxed income earned by certain foreign subsidiaries. The FASB Staff Q&A, Topic 740, No. 5, Accounting for Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income , states that we are permitted to make an accounting policy election to either recognize deferred taxes for temporary basis differences expected to reverse as global intangible low-taxed income in future years or provide for the tax expense related to such income in the year the tax is incurred. We elected to recognize deferred taxes for temporary differences expected to reverse as global intangible low-taxed income in future years. We were able to make a reasonable estimate of the deferred taxes on the temporary differences expected to reverse in the future and provided a provisional deferred tax liability as of December 31, 2017. 
 In 2018, we finalized our provisional accounting for the tax effects of the TCJA based on our best estimates of available information and data, and have reported and disclosed the impacts within the applicable measurement period, in accordance with guidance issued by the SEC. The amounts recorded may change in the future due to uncertain tax positions. With respect to the aforementioned repatriation tax liability, the first installment, due in April 2019, is reported in Income taxes payable, and the remaining liability is reported in Other taxes payable in our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2018. We believe that there may be additional interpretations, clarifications and guidance from the U.S. Department of Treasury. Any change to our calculations resulting from such additional interpretations, clarifications and guidance would be reflected in the period of issuance. In addition, our obligations may vary as a result of changes in our uncertain tax positions and/or availability of attributes such as foreign tax and other credit carryforwards. 
 Income tax assets and liabilities also include income tax valuation allowances and accruals for uncertain tax positions. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 1C. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies: Estimates and Assumptions ; Note 1P. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies: Tax Assets and Liabilities and Income Tax Contingencies and Note 5A. Tax Matters: Taxes on Income from Continuing Operations, as well as the “Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources––Selected Measures of Liquidity and Capital Resources—Contractual Obligations” section of this Financial Review . 
 
 Contingencies 
 
 For a discussion about income tax contingencies, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 5D. Tax Matters: Tax Contingencies. 
 
 For a discussion about legal and environmental contingencies, guarantees and indemnifications, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 17. Contingencies and Certain Commitments . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 19 
 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ANALYSIS OF THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 18/17 
 
 
 
 17/16 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 53,647 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 52,546 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 52,824 
 
 
 
 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 (1 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 
 
 11,248 
 
 
 
 
 
 11,228 
 
 
 
 
 
 12,322 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (9 
 
 ) 
 
 
 % of revenues 
 
 
 
 21.0 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 21.4 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 23.3 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses 
 
 
 
 14,455 
 
 
 
 
 
 14,804 
 
 
 
 
 
 14,844 
 
 
 
 
 
 (2 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 % of revenues 
 
 
 
 26.9 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 28.2 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 28.1 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Research and development expenses 
 
 
 
 8,006 
 
 
 
 
 
 7,683 
 
 
 
 
 
 7,892 
 
 
 
 
 
 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 (3 
 
 ) 
 
 
 % of revenues 
 
 
 
 14.9 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 14.6 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 14.9 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization of intangible assets 
 
 
 
 4,893 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,758 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,056 
 
 
 
 
 
 3 
 
 
 
 
 
 17 
 
 
 
 
 % of revenues 
 
 
 
 9.1 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 9.1 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 7.7 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 
 
 
 
 1,044 
 
 
 
 
 
 351 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,565 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 (78 
 
 ) 
 
 
 % of revenues 
 
 
 
 1.9 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 0.7 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 3.0 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Other (income)/deductions—net 
 
 
 
 2,116 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,416 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,794 
 
 
 
 
 
 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 (63 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Income from continuing operations before provision/(benefit) for taxes on income 
 
 
 
 11,885 
 
 
 
 
 
 12,305 
 
 
 
 
 
 8,351 
 
 
 
 
 
 (3 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 47 
 
 
 
 
 % of revenues 
 
 
 
 22.2 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 23.4 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 15.8 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Provision/(benefit) for taxes on income 
 
 
 
 706 
 
 
 
 
 
 (9,049 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 1,123 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 Effective tax rate 
 
 
 
 5.9 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 (73.5 
 
 )% 
 
 
 
 13.4 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Income from continuing operations 
 
 
 
 11,179 
 
 
 
 
 
 21,353 
 
 
 
 
 
 7,229 
 
 
 
 
 
 (48 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 % of revenues 
 
 
 
 20.8 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 40.6 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 13.7 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Discontinued operations—net of tax 
 
 
 
 10 
 
 
 
 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 17 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 (87 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Net income before allocation to noncontrolling interests 
 
 
 
 11,188 
 
 
 
 
 
 21,355 
 
 
 
 
 
 7,246 
 
 
 
 
 
 (48 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 % of revenues 
 
 
 
 20.9 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 40.6 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 13.7 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 
 
 
 
 36 
 
 
 
 
 
 47 
 
 
 
 
 
 31 
 
 
 
 
 
 (24 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 54 
 
 
 
 
 Net income attributable to Pfizer Inc. 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 11,153 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 21,308 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 7,215 
 
 
 
 
 
 (48 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 % of revenues 
 
 
 
 20.8 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 40.6 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 13.7 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Certain amounts and percentages may reflect rounding adjustments. 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 Indicates calculation not meaningful or result is equal to or greater than 100%. 
 
 Revenues — Overview 
 Total revenues in 2018 compared to 2017 reflects operational growth of $791 million , or 2% , and the favorable impact of foreign exchange of $310 million , or less than 1% , in 2018 , compared to 2017 . 
 Compared to 2016, total revenues for 2017 were unfavorably impacted by approximately $200 million as a result of 2017 having one less selling day in both U.S. and international markets. 
 Total revenues in 2017 compared to 2016 reflect a slight operational decrease of $20 million, or less than 1%, and an unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of $259 million, or less than 1%, in 2017 compared to 2016 . 
 See the “Revenues by Segment and Geography” and “Revenues—Selected Product Discussion” sections of this Financial Review for additional analyses. 
 See the “Our Operating Environment—Industry-Specific Challenges—Intellectual Property Rights and Collaboration/Licensing Rights” section of this Financial Review for information about recent losses and expected losses of product exclusivity impacting product revenues. 
 A number of our current products have experienced patent-based expirations or loss of regulatory exclusivity in certain markets in the last few years. For additional information, see the “Patents and Other Intellectual Property Rights” section in Part I, ITEM 1, “Business” of our 2018 Form 10-K. 
 We have significant operations outside the U.S., with revenues exceeding $500 million in the following number of countries: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 20 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 By total revenues, the U.S., China and Japan are our three largest national markets: 
 
 Inventory Stocking 
 
 Our policy relating to the supply of pharmaceutical inventory at domestic wholesalers, and in major international markets, is to generally maintain stocking levels under one month on average and to keep monthly levels consistent from year to year based on patterns of utilization. We historically have been able to closely monitor these customer stocking levels by purchasing information from our customers directly or by obtaining other third-party information. We believe our data sources to be directionally reliable but cannot verify their accuracy. Further, as we do not control this third-party data, we cannot be assured of continuing access. Unusual buying patterns and utilization are promptly investigated. 
 
 Revenue Deductions 
 
 Our gross product revenues are subject to a variety of deductions, which generally are estimated and recorded in the same period that the revenues are recognized. Such variable consideration represents chargebacks, rebates, sales allowances and sales returns.These deductions represent estimates of related obligations and, as such, knowledge and judgment is required when estimating the impact of these revenue deductions on gross sales for a reporting period. Historically, our adjustments of estimates, to reflect actual results or updated expectations, have not been material to our overall business. On a quarterly basis, our adjustments of estimates to reflect actual results generally have been less than 1% of revenues, and have resulted in either a net increase or a net decrease in revenues. Product-specific rebates, however, can have a significant impact on year-over-year individual product growth trends. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following table provides information about revenue deductions: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 Medicare rebates (a) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,706 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,316 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,063 
 
 
 
 
 Medicaid and related state program rebates (a) 
 
 
 
 1,969 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,860 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,473 
 
 
 
 
 Performance-based contract rebates (a), (b) 
 
 
 
 3,377 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,245 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,560 
 
 
 
 
 Chargebacks (c) 
 
 
 
 6,461 
 
 
 
 
 
 6,047 
 
 
 
 
 
 5,736 
 
 
 
 
 Sales allowances (d) 
 
 
 
 5,592 
 
 
 
 
 
 5,165 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,623 
 
 
 
 
 Sales returns and cash discounts 
 
 
 
 1,522 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,493 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,441 
 
 
 
 
 Total (e) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 20,627 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 19,126 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 16,895 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 Rebates are product-specific and, therefore, for any given year are impacted by the mix of products sold. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 Performance-based contract rebates include contract rebates with managed care customers within the U.S., including health maintenance organizations and PBMs, who receive rebates based on the achievement of contracted performance terms and claims under these contracts. Outside the U.S., performance-based contract rebates include rebates to wholesalers/distributors based on achievement of contracted performance for specific products or sales milestones. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 Chargebacks primarily represent reimbursements to U.S. wholesalers for honoring contracted prices to third parties. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) 
 
 Sales allowances primarily represent price reductions that are contractual or legislatively mandated outside the U.S., discounts and distribution fees. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (e) 
 
 For 2018 , associated with the following segments: IH ( $8.9 billion ); and EH ( $11.7 billion ). For 2017 , associated with the following segments: IH ( $9.0 billion ); and EH ( $10.1 billion ). For 2016 , associated with the following segments: IH ( $7.1 billion ); and EH ( $9.8 billion ). 
 
 Total revenue deductions for 2018 increase d 8% compared to 2017 , primarily as a result of: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 an increase in sales allowances as a result of sales growth, primarily in international markets; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 higher chargebacks to U.S. wholesalers of certain IH and EH products, partially offset by decreases in chargebacks as a result of decreases in sales of sterile injectable products; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 an increase in Medicare rebates driven by increased sales of IH products through this channel; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 an increase in Medicaid and related state program rebates, primarily as a result of increased sales of IH products through these programs. 
 For information on our accruals for Medicare rebates, Medicaid and related state program rebates, performance-based contract rebates, chargebacks, sales allowances and sales returns and cash discounts, including the balance sheet classification of these accruals, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 1G. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies: Revenues and Trade Accounts Receivable . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 21 
 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Revenues by Segment and Geography 
 
 The following graphs show revenues by geography (dollars in billions): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following table provides worldwide revenues by operating segment and geography: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Worldwide 
 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 
 Worldwide 
 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 18/17 
 
 
 
 
 
 17/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 18/17 
 
 
 
 
 
 17/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 18/17 
 
 
 
 17/16 
 
 
 
 
 Operating Segments (a) : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 IH 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 33,426 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 31,422 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 29,197 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 18,959 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 18,460 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 16,773 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 14,467 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 12,962 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 12,424 
 
 
 
 
 
 6 
 
 
 
 
 
 8 
 
 
 
 
 
 3 
 
 
 
 
 
 10 
 
 
 
 
 
 12 
 
 
 
 4 
 
 
 
 
 EH 
 
 
 
 20,221 
 
 
 
 
 
 21,124 
 
 
 
 
 
 23,627 
 
 
 
 
 
 6,370 
 
 
 
 
 
 7,567 
 
 
 
 
 
 9,596 
 
 
 
 
 
 13,851 
 
 
 
 
 
 13,557 
 
 
 
 
 
 14,031 
 
 
 
 
 
 (4 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (11 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (16 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (21 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 (3 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Total revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 53,647 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 52,546 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 52,824 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 25,329 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 26,026 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 26,369 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 28,318 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 26,519 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 26,455 
 
 
 
 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 (1 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (3 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (1 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 7 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 IH = the Innovative Health segment; and EH = the Essential Health segment. For additional information about each operating segment, see the “Our Strategy––Commercial Operations” section of this Financial Review and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 18A. Segment, Geographic and Other Revenue Information: Segment Information. 
 We recorded direct product and/or alliance revenues of more than $1 billion for each of 10 products in 2018 and for nine products in 2017 and 2016 . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Direct Product And/Or Alliance Revenues of More Than $1 Billion 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13 
 
 
 
 Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13 
 
 
 
 Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13 
 
 
 Lyrica 
 
 
 
 Lyrica 
 
 
 
 Lyrica 
 
 
 Ibrance 
 
 
 
 Ibrance 
 
 
 
 Enbrel 
 
 
 Eliquis* 
 
 
 
 Eliquis* 
 
 
 
 Ibrance 
 
 
 Enbrel 
 
 
 
 Enbrel 
 
 
 
 Lipitor 
 
 
 Lipitor 
 
 
 
 Lipitor 
 
 
 
 Eliquis* 
 
 
 Xeljanz 
 
 
 
 Xeljanz 
 
 
 
 Viagra 
 
 
 Chantix/Champix 
 
 
 
 Viagra 
 
 
 
 Sutent 
 
 
 Sutent 
 
 
 
 Sutent 
 
 
 
 Premarin family of products 
 
 
 Norvasc 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 * Eliquis includes alliance revenues and direct sales in 2018, 2017 and 2016. 
 These direct product sales and/or alliance product revenues represent 51% of our revenues in 2018 , 46% of our revenues in 2017 and 43% of our revenues in 2016 . See the “Analysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income—Revenues—Selected Product Discussion” section of this Financial Review for additional information. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 22 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 v. 2017 
 
 The following provides an analysis of the change in revenues by geographic areas in 2018 : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 Worldwide 
 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 Operational growth/(decline): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Continued growth from certain key brands (a) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 2,815 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,150 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,664 
 
 
 
 
 Growth from Biosimilars, primarily from Inflectra in certain channels in the U.S. and developed Europe markets 
 
 
 
 217 
 
 
 
 
 
 147 
 
 
 
 
 
 69 
 
 
 
 
 Growth from recently launched products, including Eucrisa in the U.S., as well as Besponsa and Bavencio, primarily in the U.S. and developed Europe 
 
 
 
 195 
 
 
 
 
 
 158 
 
 
 
 
 
 37 
 
 
 
 
 Growth in our Consumer Healthcare business across all markets 
 
 
 
 107 
 
 
 
 
 
 26 
 
 
 
 
 
 81 
 
 
 
 
 Impact from CentreOne primarily in emerging markets 
 
 
 
 45 
 
 
 
 
 
 (127 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 172 
 
 
 
 
 Lower revenues for total Viagra (b) , primarily in the U.S. due to generic competition that began in December 2017 
 
 
 
 (572 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (572 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Decline from the Peri-LOE Products portfolio, driven by lower revenues in developed markets (excluding Viagra EH), primarily due to expected declines in Lyrica in developed Europe and Celebrex and Pristiq in the U.S. due to generic competition 
 
 
 
 (558 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (188 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (371 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Impact from the SIP portfolio, driven by lower revenues in developed markets, primarily due to increased competition across the portfolio and continued legacy Hospira product shortages in the U.S. 
 
 
 
 (504 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (589 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 86 
 
 
 
 
 Impact from the LEP portfolio, driven by lower revenues in developed markets, primarily as a result of industry-wide pricing challenges in the U.S. and generic competition 
 
 
 
 (436 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (592 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 156 
 
 
 
 
 Lower revenues for Enbrel, primarily in most developed Europe markets due to continued biosimilar competition 
 
 
 
 (350 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (350 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Lower revenues from the hemophilia portfolio (BeneFIX and Refacto AF/Xyntha), primarily in developed Europe 
 
 
 
 (100 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (13 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (88 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Impact on financial results from the sale of HIS in February 2017. 2018 does not reflect any contribution from HIS global operations, compared to approximately one month of HIS domestic operations and approximately two months of HIS international operations in the same period in 2017 
 
 
 
 (97 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (64 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (33 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Other operational factors, net 
 
 
 
 31 
 
 
 
 
 
 (34 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 65 
 
 
 
 
 Operational growth/(decline), net 
 
 
 
 791 
 
 
 
 
 
 (698 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 1,489 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Favorable impact of foreign exchange 
 
 
 
 310 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 310 
 
 
 
 
 Revenues increase/(decrease) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,101 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (698 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,799 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 Certain key brands represent Ibrance, Eliquis, Xeljanz, Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13, Xtandi, Lyrica––IH and Chantix/Champix. See the “Analysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income––Revenues––Selected Product Discussion" section of this Financial Review for product analysis information. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 Viagra lost exclusivity in the U.S. in December 2017. In 2018, revenues for Viagra in the U.S. and Canada, which were reported in IH through 2017, were reported in EH (which reported all other Viagra revenues excluding the U.S. and Canada through 2017). Therefore, in 2018, total Viagra revenues were reported in EH. Total Viagra revenues in 2017 represent the aggregate of worldwide revenues from Viagra IH and Viagra EH. 
 Emerging markets revenues increase d $1.3 billion , or 11% , in 2018 to $12.7 billion , from $11.4 billion , reflecting an operational increase of $1.5 billion , or 13% . Foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of approximately 2% on emerging markets revenues. The operational increase in emerging markets was driven by our EH segment, primarily by the Legacy Established Products portfolio and the Sterile Injectable Pharmaceuticals portfolio, as well as Prevenar 13, Ibrance and Eliquis in our IH segment. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 23 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 v. 2016 
 
 The following provides an analysis of the change in revenues by geographic areas in 2017 : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 Worldwide 
 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 Disposition-related operational impact: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Approximately one month of HIS domestic operations and approximately two months of HIS international operations in 2017, compared to twelve months of HIS global operations in 2016 (February 2017 sale) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (1,062 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (841 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (221 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Other operational growth/(decline): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Continued growth from certain key brands (a) 
 
 
 
 1,608 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,104 
 
 
 
 
 
 503 
 
 
 
 
 Ibrance global growth: U.S. revenues increased primarily due to continued strong uptake in the metastatic breast cancer setting. International revenues increased operationally, but were negatively impacted by a one-time price adjustment to 2017 revenues related to finalizing reimbursement agreements in certain developed Europe markets. 
 
 
 
 993 
 
 
 
 
 
 757 
 
 
 
 
 
 236 
 
 
 
 
 Increase in Xtandi alliance revenues in the U.S. (September 2016 acquisition of Medivation) 
 
 
 
 450 
 
 
 
 
 
 450 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Growth from Biosimilars, primarily from Inflectra in the U.S. and developed Europe markets 
 
 
 
 209 
 
 
 
 
 
 115 
 
 
 
 
 
 94 
 
 
 
 
 Decline from Peri-LOE Products, primarily due to expected declines in Pristiq in the U.S. as well as Lyrica (EH) and Vfend (both primarily in developed Europe markets) 
 
 
 
 (957 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (448 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (509 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Lower revenues for Enbrel primarily in developed Europe markets due to continued biosimilar competition 
 
 
 
 (448 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (448 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Lower revenues for Viagra (IH) in the U.S. due to generic competition that began in December 2017 
 
 
 
 (359 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (359 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Decline from the Sterile Injectable Pharmaceuticals portfolio, primarily due to legacy Hospira product shortages in the U.S. 
 
 
 
 (315 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (460 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 145 
 
 
 
 
 Decline in the Legacy Established Products portfolio primarily due to generic competition in developed markets 
 
 
 
 (188 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (419 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 231 
 
 
 
 
 Decline in Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13 revenues. U.S. revenues decreased primarily due to the expected decline in revenues for the adult indication in the U.S. due to a high initial capture rate of the eligible population following its successful fourth-quarter 2014 launch, which resulted in a smaller remaining “catch up” opportunity compared to 2016, partially offset by growth from the pediatric indication. International revenues increased primarily due to the favorable overall impact of timing and increased volume associated with government purchases in certain emerging markets for the pediatric indication compared with prior year, as well as from the inclusion of Prevenar 13 in additional national immunization programs in certain emerging markets for the adult and pediatric indications in the fourth of quarter 2017. 
 
 
 
 (108 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (311 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 203 
 
 
 
 
 Other operational factors, net 
 
 
 
 157 
 
 
 
 
 
 68 
 
 
 
 
 
 89 
 
 
 
 
 Operational growth (decline), net 
 
 
 
 (20 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (343 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 323 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Unfavorable impact of foreign exchange 
 
 
 
 (259 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (259 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Revenues increase/(decrease) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (278 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (343 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 64 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 Certain k ey brands represent Eliquis (globally), as well as Xeljanz and Lyrica - IH (both primarily in the U.S.). 
 Emerging markets revenues increased $979 million , or 9% , in 2017 to $11.4 billion , reflecting an operational increase of $1.1 billion , or 11% . Foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of approximately 2% on emerging markets revenues. The operational increase in emerging markets was primarily driven by our IH segment as well as our Legacy Established Products and Sterile Injectable Pharmaceuticals portfolios. 
 For additional information about operating segment revenues, see the “Analysis of Operating Segment Information” section of this Financial Review. 
 
 Revenues—Selected Product Discussion 
 The tables below provide worldwide revenues, by geography, for selected products. References to total change pertain to period-over-period growth rates that include foreign exchange. The difference between the total change and operational change represents the impact of foreign exchange. Amounts may not add due to rounding. All percentages have been calculated using unrounded amounts. An asterisk (*) indicates the calculation is not meaningful or results are equal to or greater than 100%. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13 (IH): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 Oper. 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 3,360 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 3,334 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 
 2,443 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,268 
 
 
 
 
 
 8 
 
 
 
 8 
 
 
 Worldwide revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 5,802 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 5,601 
 
 
 
 
 
 4 
 
 
 
 4 
 The worldwide growth in 2018 was primarily driven by international operational growth due to higher volumes for the pediatric indication resulting from the second-quarter 2017 launch in China and increased orders associated with Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, partially offset by 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 24 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 lower birth cohort and volumes in certain developed markets. The growth in 2018 in the U.S. was primarily due to the pediatric indication partially offset by the continued decline in revenues for the adult indication due to a high initial capture rate of the eligible population following its successful fourth-quarter 2014 launch, which resulted in a smaller remaining “catch up” opportunity (i.e., the opportunity to reach adults aged 65 years and older who have not been previously vaccinated with Prevnar 13), compared to the prior-year period. 
 In 2014, the ACIP voted to recommend Prevnar 13 for routine use to help protect adults aged 65 years and older against pneumococcal disease, which for adults includes pneumonia caused by the 13 pneumococcal serotypes included in the vaccine. These ACIP recommendations were subsequently approved by the directors at the CDC and U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, and were published in the Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report in September 2014 by the CDC. As with other vaccines, the CDC regularly monitors the impact of vaccination and reviews the recommendations. During the October 2018 ACIP meeting, the CDC presented initial data and indicated formal evaluation of evidence (grading) and a potential vote on the maintenance of the 65 years and older recommendation would likely happen in 2019. A potential adverse change in the ACIP recommendation would negatively impact future Prevnar 13 revenues. We continue to generate and publish data and communicate with the ACIP on the burden of pneumococcal disease and Prevnar 13 vaccine effectiveness and safety. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Lyrica (EH (revenues from all of Europe, Russia, Turkey, Israel and Central Asia)/IH (revenues from all other geographies)): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oper. 
 
 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 3,594 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 3,463 
 
 
 
 
 
 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 
 1,375 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,601 
 
 
 
 
 
 (14 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (15 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Worldwide revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 4,970 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 5,065 
 
 
 
 
 
 (2 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (2 
 
 ) 
 The operational decline in worldwide Lyrica revenues in 2018 was primarily driven by losses of exclusivity in developed Europe markets and Australia, partially offset by growth in the U.S. and growth in the orally dissolving tablet formulation in Japan. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following table provides worldwide revenues for Lyrica in our IH segment, by geography: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oper. 
 
 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 3,594 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 3,463 
 
 
 
 
 
 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 
 1,028 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,048 
 
 
 
 
 
 (2 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (3 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Worldwide revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 4,622 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 4,511 
 
 
 
 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 2 
 
 
 The operational growth in worldwide Lyrica revenues in our IH segment in 2018 was primarily due to growth in the U.S. and growth in the orally dissolving tablet formulation in Japan, partially offset by losses of exclusivity primarily in Australia. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following table provides worldwide revenues for Lyrica in our EH segment, by geography: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oper. 
 
 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 
 347 
 
 
 
 
 
 553 
 
 
 
 
 
 (37 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (39 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Worldwide revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 347 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 553 
 
 
 
 
 
 (37 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (39 
 
 ) 
 The worldwide operational decline in our EH segment in 2018 was primarily due to losses of exclusivity in developed Europe markets. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Ibrance (IH): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 Oper. 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 2,922 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 2,825 
 
 
 
 
 
 3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 
 1,196 
 
 
 
 
 
 300 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 Worldwide revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 4,118 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 3,126 
 
 
 
 
 
 32 
 
 
 
 32 
 The worldwide operational growth in 2018 reflects continued uptake in international markets, mostly driven by developed Europe, Japan and select emerging markets as we launched and secured access and reimbursement through 2017 and 2018, as well as the non-recurrence of a one-time price adjustment in 2017 related to finalizing reimbursement agreements in certain developed Europe markets. The growth in 2018 in the U.S. was primarily due to continued demand growth partially offset by uptake of competitors and increased rebates. Ibrance maintains class leadership among cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors in major markets, supported by our scientific/clinical data and continued positive patient experience. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 25 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Eliquis alliance revenues and direct sales (IH): Eliquis has been jointly developed and is commercialized by Pfizer and BMS. Pfizer funds between 50% and 60% of all development costs depending on the study. Profits and losses are shared equally on a global basis, except in certain countries where Pfizer commercializes Eliquis and pays BMS compensation based on a percentage of net sales. We have full commercialization rights in certain smaller markets. BMS supplies the product to us at cost plus a percentage of the net sales to end-customers in these markets. Eliquis is part of the Novel Oral Anticoagulant (NOAC) market; the agents in this class were developed as alternative treatment options to warfarin in appropriate patients. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 Oper. 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,849 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,418 
 
 
 
 
 
 30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 
 1,585 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,105 
 
 
 
 
 
 43 
 
 
 
 40 
 
 
 Worldwide revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 3,434 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 2,523 
 
 
 
 
 
 36 
 
 
 
 35 
 The worldwide operational growth in 2018 was primarily driven by continued increased adoption in non-valvular atrial fibrillation, as well as oral anti-coagulant market share gain. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Enbrel (IH, outside the U.S. and Canada): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oper. 
 
 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 
 2,112 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,452 
 
 
 
 
 
 (14 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (14 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Worldwide revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 2,112 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 2,452 
 
 
 
 
 
 (14 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (14 
 
 ) 
 The worldwide operational decline in 2018 was primarily due to ongoing biosimilar competition in most developed Europe markets, which is expected to continue. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Lipitor (EH): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oper. 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 110 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 161 
 
 
 
 
 
 (31 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 
 1,952 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,754 
 
 
 
 
 
 11 
 
 
 
 
 
 9 
 
 
 Worldwide revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 2,062 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,915 
 
 
 
 
 
 8 
 
 
 
 
 
 5 
 The worldwide operational growth in 2018 was primarily driven by increased demand in China, partially offset by pricing pressures in China, the non-recurrence of favorable U.S. rebates that occurred in the third quarter of 2017 and generic competition in Japan. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Xeljanz (IH): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 Oper. 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,394 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,133 
 
 
 
 
 
 23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 
 380 
 
 
 
 
 
 212 
 
 
 
 
 
 79 
 
 
 
 84 
 
 
 Worldwide revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,774 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,345 
 
 
 
 
 
 32 
 
 
 
 33 
 The growth in the U.S. in 2018 was primarily driven by increased adoption among rheumatologists, growing awareness among patients and improvements in payer access, and to a lesser extent, launches of the PsA indication in the first quarter of 2018 and ulcerative colitis indication in the third quarter of 2018. 
 The operational growth internationally in 2018 was primarily driven by the 2017 approval of the RA indication in certain European markets, as well as continued uptake in Japan, Canada and emerging markets. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Chantix/Champix (IH): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oper. 
 
 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 838 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 742 
 
 
 
 
 
 13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 
 247 
 
 
 
 
 
 255 
 
 
 
 
 
 (3 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (5 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Worldwide revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,085 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 997 
 
 
 
 
 
 9 
 
 
 
 
 
 8 
 
 
 The growth in the U.S. in 2018 was primarily due to increased volume, improved patient access and positive price impact. The operational decline in 2018 internationally was primarily driven by lower demand in South Korea. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 26 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Sutent (IH): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oper. 
 
 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 357 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 374 
 
 
 
 
 
 (4 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 
 692 
 
 
 
 
 
 707 
 
 
 
 
 
 (2 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (3 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Worldwide revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,049 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,081 
 
 
 
 
 
 (3 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (4 
 
 ) 
 The worldwide operational decline in 2018 was primarily due to lower volumes driven by competitive pressure in the U.S. and key European markets. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Norvasc (EH): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oper. 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 36 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 38 
 
 
 
 
 
 (5 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 
 988 
 
 
 
 
 
 888 
 
 
 
 
 
 11 
 
 
 
 
 
 9 
 
 
 Worldwide revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,024 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 926 
 
 
 
 
 
 11 
 
 
 
 
 
 9 
 The worldwide operational growth in 2018 was primarily driven by increased demand in China, partially offset by generic competition in Japan and pricing pressures in China. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The Premarin family of products (EH): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oper. 
 
 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 783 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 921 
 
 
 
 
 
 (15 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 
 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 56 
 
 
 
 
 
 (12 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (12 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Worldwide revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 832 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 977 
 
 
 
 
 
 (15 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (15 
 
 ) 
 The worldwide operational decline in 2018 was primarily driven by generic competition in the U.S. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Xtandi alliance revenues (IH): Xtandi is being developed and commercialized through a collaboration with Astellas. The two companies share equally in the gross profits (losses) related to U.S. net sales of Xtandi. Subject to certain exceptions, Pfizer and Astellas also share equally all Xtandi commercialization costs attributable to the U.S. market. Pfizer and Astellas also share certain development and other collaboration expenses, and Pfizer receives tiered royalties as a percentage of international Xtandi net sales (recorded in Other (income)/deductions—net ). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 Oper. 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 699 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 590 
 
 
 
 
 
 18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 Worldwide revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 699 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 590 
 
 
 
 
 
 18 
 
 
 
 18 
 The growth in the U.S. in 2018 was driven by continued growth of Xtandi in castration-resistant prostate cancer as well as reduction in patient assistance program (PAP) utilization in 2018 compared to 2017. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Celebrex (EH): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oper. 
 
 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 65 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 164 
 
 
 
 
 
 (60 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 
 621 
 
 
 
 
 
 611 
 
 
 
 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Worldwide revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 686 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 775 
 
 
 
 
 
 (11 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (13 
 
 ) 
 The worldwide operational decline in 2018 was primarily driven by the non-recurrence of the favorable U.S. rebates that occurred in 2017, lower volumes in the U.S., as well as pricing pressure in Mexico and China, partially offset by increased demand in China. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 27 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Inflectra/Remsima (EH): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 Oper. 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 259 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 118 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 
 383 
 
 
 
 
 
 301 
 
 
 
 
 
 27 
 
 
 
 23 
 
 
 Worldwide revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 642 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 419 
 
 
 
 
 
 53 
 
 
 
 50 
 The worldwide operational growth in 2018 was primarily due to continued uptake in certain channels in the U.S., as well as in developed markets in Europe, partially offset by pricing pressures in these markets. 
 Inflectra uptake in the U.S. is being driven by a number of factors, including purchases by closed systems, which value long-term savings over short-term rebating, and consistent reimbursement in Medicare. To date, reimbursement coverage has been mixed. While we achieved 100% Medicare coverage, in the face of exclusionary conduct by J&J, we have experienced access challenges among commercial payers where our lower priced product has not received access at parity to the innovator product. We will continue to work with commercial payers to enable greater access for Inflectra. Additionally, in September 2017, Pfizer filed suit in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania against J&J alleging that J&J’s exclusionary contracts and other anticompetitive practices concerning Remicade® (infliximab) violate federal antitrust laws. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Viagra (EH): Viagra lost exclusivity in the U.S. in December 2017. In 2018, revenues for Viagra in the U.S. and Canada, which were reported in IH through 2017, are reported in EH (which reported all other Viagra revenues excluding the U.S. and Canada through 2017). Therefore, in 2018, total Viagra revenues are reported in EH. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oper. 
 
 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 217 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 789 
 
 
 
 
 
 (73 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 
 419 
 
 
 
 
 
 416 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Worldwide revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 636 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,204 
 
 
 
 
 
 (47 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (47 
 
 ) 
 The decline in the U.S. in 2018 was primarily due to the loss of exclusivity in December 2017. 
 The relatively flat operational performance in 2018 internationally was primarily driven by increased demand in China offset by lower volumes in Russia and developed Europe. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Sulperazon (EH): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 Oper. 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 
 613 
 
 
 
 
 
 471 
 
 
 
 
 
 30 
 
 
 
 27 
 
 
 Worldwide revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 613 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 471 
 
 
 
 
 
 30 
 
 
 
 27 
 The international operational growth in 2018 was primarily due to increased demand in China. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Xalkori (IH): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 Oper. 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 158 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 223 
 
 
 
 
 
 (29 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 
 366 
 
 
 
 
 
 371 
 
 
 
 
 
 (1 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (4 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Worldwide revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 524 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 594 
 
 
 
 
 
 (12 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (14 
 
 ) 
 The worldwide operational decline in 2018 was primarily due to volume declines in the ALK indication across certain developed markets, primarily in the U.S. and certain markets in developed Europe, due to competitive pressure. The decline was partially offset by a continued increase in diagnostic rates for the ALK gene mutation across key markets and share in first-line ALK treatment outside the U.S., primarily in certain emerging markets, as well as uptake in treatment of patients with metastatic NSCLC whose tumors are ROS1-positive. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Inlyta (IH): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oper. 
 
 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 119 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 126 
 
 
 
 
 
 (5 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 
 178 
 
 
 
 
 
 213 
 
 
 
 
 
 (16 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (16 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Worldwide revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 298 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 339 
 
 
 
 
 
 (12 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (12 
 
 ) 
 The worldwide operational decline in 2018 was primarily due to increased competition across developed markets. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 28 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Eucrisa (IH): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 Oper. 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 147 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 67 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 Worldwide revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 147 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 67 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 * 
 The growth in the U.S. in 2018 was driven by increasing prescriber trial and adoption, enhanced patient awareness and availability of patient access programs. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Alliance revenues (IH/EH): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 Oper. 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 2,576 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 2,037 
 
 
 
 
 
 26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 
 1,263 
 
 
 
 
 
 890 
 
 
 
 
 
 42 
 
 
 
 37 
 
 
 Worldwide revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 3,838 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 2,927 
 
 
 
 
 
 31 
 
 
 
 30 
 The worldwide operational growth in 2018 was mainly due to increases in Eliquis and Xtandi alliance revenues discussed above. 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 Bavencio (IH) is being developed and commercialized in collaboration with Merck KGaA. Both companies jointly fund the majority of development and commercialization costs, and split equally any profits generated from selling any products containing avelumab from this collaboration. Bavencio is currently approved in metastatic MCC in the U.S., Europe and Japan and selected other markets, as well as in second line treatment of locally advanced or metastatic urothelial carcinoma in the U.S. 
 See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 18C. Segment, Geographic and Other Revenue Information : Other Revenue Information for additional information regarding the primary indications or class of the selected products discussed above. 
 See the “Our Operating Environment—Industry-Specific Challenges—Intellectual Property Rights and Collaboration/Licensing Rights” section of this Financial Review for information regarding the expiration of various patent rights. 
 
 See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 17. Contingencies and Certain Commitments for a discussion of recent developments concerning patent and product litigation relating to certain of the products discussed above. 
 
 PRODUCT DEVELOPMENTS—BIOPHARMACEUTICAL 
 We continue to invest in R&D to provide potential future sources of revenues through the development of new products, as well as through additional uses for in-line and alliance products. Notwithstanding our efforts, there are no assurances as to when, or if, we will receive regulatory approval for additional indications for existing products or any of our other products in development. 
 We continue to strengthen our global R&D organization and pursue strategies intended to improve innovation and overall productivity in R&D to achieve a sustainable pipeline that will deliver value in the near term and over time. 
 For additional information about our R&D organization, see the “Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook—Our Strategy—Organizing for Growth” and “—Description of Research and Development Operations” sections of this Financial Review. 
 A comprehensive update of Pfizer’s development pipeline was published as of January 29, 2019 and is available at www.pfizer.com/science/drug-product-pipeline. It includes an overview of our research and a list of compounds in development with targeted indication and phase of development, as well as mechanism of action for some candidates in Phase 1 and all candidates from Phase 2 through registration. 
 The following series of tables provides information about significant regulatory actions by, and filings pending with, the FDA and regulatory authorities in the EU and Japan, as well as additional indications and new drug candidates in late-stage development. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 RECENT FDA APPROVALS 
 
 
 PRODUCT 
 
 INDICATION 
 
 DATE APPROVED 
 
 
 Daurismo (glasdegib) 
 
 Treatment of newly-diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia in adult patients who are 75 years or older or who have comorbidities that preclude use of intensive induction chemotherapy 
 
 November 2018 
 
 
 Lorbrena (lorlatinib) 
 
 Treatment of patients with ALK-positive metastatic NSCLC whose disease has progressed on crizotinib and at least one other ALK inhibitor for metastatic disease; or whose disease has progressed on alectinib or ceritinib as the first ALK inhibitor therapy for metastatic disease 
 
 November 2018 
 
 
 Talzenna (talazoparib) 
 
 Treatment of adult patients with deleterious or suspected deleterious germline BRCA-mutated (gBRCAm) human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-negative locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer 
 
 October 2018 
 
 
 Vizimpro (dacomitinib) 
 
 First-line treatment of patients with metastatic non-small cell lung cancer with epidermal growth factor receptor exon 19 deletion or exon 21 L858R substitution mutations as detected by an FDA-approved test, which is being developed in collaboration with SFJ 
 
 September 2018 
 
 
 Nivestym (filgrastim-aafi) (a) 
 
 A biosimilar to Neupogen ® (filgrastim) for all eligible indications of the reference product 
 
 July 2018 
 
 
 Xtandi (enzalutamide) 
 
 Treatment of men with non-metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer, which is being developed through a collaboration with Astellas 
 
 July 2018 
 
 
 Xeljanz (tofacitinib) 
 
 Treatment of adult patients with moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis 
 
 May 2018 
 
 
 Retacrit (epoetin alfa-epbx) (b) 
 
 A biosimilar to Epogen® and Procrit® (epoetin alfa) for all indications of the reference product 
 
 May 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 Neupogen ® is a registered trademark of Amgen Inc. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 Epogen® is a registered U.S. trademark of Amgen Inc.; Procrit® is a registered U.S. trademark of J&J. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 29 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PENDING U.S. NDAs AND SUPPLEMENTAL FILINGS 
 
 
 PRODUCT 
 
 PROPOSED INDICATION 
 
 DATE FILED* 
 
 
 Bavencio (avelumab) 
 
 A monoclonal antibody that inhibits PD-L1, in combination with Inlyta (axitinib), a tyrosine kinase inhibitor, for the first-line treatment of advanced renal cell carcinoma, which is being developed in collaboration with Merck KGaA, Germany 
 
 February 2019 
 
 
 PF-06410293 (a) 
 
 A potential biosimilar to Humira® (adalimumab) 
 
 January 2019 
 
 
 tafamidis meglumine 
 
 Treatment of transthyretin amyloid cardiomyopathy 
 
 January 2019 
 
 
 tafamidis free acid 
 
 Treatment of transthyretin amyloid cardiomyopathy 
 
 January 2019 
 
 
 PF-05280586 (b) 
 
 A potential biosimilar to Rituxan ® (rituximab) 
 
 September 2018 
 
 
 PF-06439535 (c) 
 
 A potential biosimilar to Avastin ® (bevacizumab) 
 
 August 2018 
 
 
 PF-05280014 (d) 
 
 A potential biosimilar to Herceptin ® (trastuzumab) 
 
 August 2017 
 
 
 tafamidis meglumine (e) 
 
 Treatment of transthyretin familial amyloid polyneuropathy 
 
 February 2012 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 The dates set forth in this column are the dates on which the FDA accepted our submissions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 Humira ® is a registered trademark of AbbVie Biotechnology Ltd. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 Rituxan ® is a registered trademark of Biogen MA Inc. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 Avastin ® is a registered trademark of Genentech, Inc. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) 
 
 Herceptin ® is a registered trademark of Genentech, Inc. In April 2018, we received a “complete response” letter from the FDA with respect to our biologics license application (BLA) for PF-05280014, our proposed biosimilar to trastuzumab, which was submitted for all indications of the reference product. The FDA highlighted the need for additional technical information, which does not relate to safety or clinical data submitted in the application. In October 2018, the FDA acknowledged for review our BLA resubmission. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (e) 
 
 In May 2012, the FDA’s Peripheral and Central Nervous System Drugs Advisory Committee voted that the tafamidis meglumine data provide substantial evidence of efficacy for a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict a clinical benefit. In June 2012, the FDA issued a “complete response” letter with respect to this tafamidis NDA. The FDA has requested the completion of a second efficacy study, and also has asked for additional information on the data within the current tafamidis NDA. Pfizer has completed study B3461028, a global Phase 3 study to support a potential new indication in transthyretin cardiomyopathy, which includes patients with wild type and variant transthyretin. This study has achieved its primary endpoint, and we are working with the FDA to identify next steps. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 REGULATORY APPROVALS AND FILINGS IN THE EU AND JAPAN 
 
 
 PRODUCT 
 
 DESCRIPTION OF EVENT 
 
 DATE APPROVED 
 
 DATE FILED* 
 
 
 Zirabev (a) 
 
 Application approved in the EU for a biosimilar to Avastin ® (bevacizumab) for the treatment of metastatic carcinoma of the colon or rectum, metastatic breast cancer, unresectable advanced, metastatic or recurrent NSCLC, advanced and/or metastatic renal cell cancer and persistent, recurrent, or metastatic carcinoma of the cervix 
 
 February 2019 
 
 — 
 
 
 Vyndaqel (tafamidis free acid) 
 
 Application filed in the EU for the treatment of adult symptomatic transthyretin cardiomyopathy 
 
 — 
 
 January 2019 
 
 
 Bavencio (avelumab) 
 
 Application filed in Japan for Bavencio (avelumab) in combination with Inlyta (axitinib) for the first-line treatment of advanced renal cell carcinoma, which is being developed in collaboration with Merck KGaA, Germany 
 
 — 
 
 January 2019 
 
 
 Vizimpro (dacomitinib) 
 
 Application approved in Japan for the treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer with EGFR mutations, which is being developed in collaboration with SFJ 
 
 January 2019 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 PF-06410293 (b) 
 
 Application filed in the EU for a potential biosimilar to Humira ® (adalimumab) 
 
 — 
 
 November 2018 
 
 
 tafamidis meglumine 
 
 Application filed in Japan for treatment of transthyretin amyloid cardiomyopathy 
 
 — 
 
 November 2018 
 
 
 Xtandi (enzalutamide) 
 
 Application approved in the EU for treatment of adult men with high-risk non-metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer, which is being developed through a collaboration with Astellas 
 
 October 2018 
 
 — 
 
 
 Trastuzumab BS for IV Infusion 60mg/150mg “Pfizer” (c) 
 
 Application approved in Japan for a biosimilar to Herceptin ® (trastuzumab) 
 
 September 2018 
 
 — 
 
 
 Lorbrena (lorlatinib) 
 
 Application approved in Japan for the treatment of patients with ALK-positive metastatic non-small cell lung cancer, previously treated with one or more ALK inhibitor 
 
 September 2018 
 
 — 
 
 
 PF-05280586 (d) 
 
 Application filed in the EU for a potential biosimilar to Rituxan ® (rituximab) 
 
 — 
 
 August 2018 
 
 
 Xeljanz (tofacitinib) 
 
 Application approved in the EU for the treatment of adult patients with moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis who have had an inadequate response, lost response, or were intolerant to either conventional therapy or a biologic agent 
 
 July 2018 
 
 — 
 
 
 Trazimera (c) 
 
 Application approved in the EU for a biosimilar to Herceptin ® (trastuzumab) for the treatment of human epidermal growth factor (HER2) overexpressing breast cancer and HER2 overexpressing metastatic gastric or gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma 
 
 July 2018 
 
 — 
 
 
 Infliximab BS for IV Infusion 100mg “Pfizer” (e) 
 
 Application approved in Japan for a biosimilar to Remicade ® (infliximab) 
 
 July 2018 
 
 — 
 
 
 Xeljanz (tofacitinib) 
 
 Application approved in the EU for Xeljanz in combination with methotrexate for the treatment of active PsA in adult patients who have had an inadequate response or who have been intolerant to a prior disease-modifying antirheumatic drug therapy 
 
 June 2018 
 
 — 
 
 
 talazoparib 
 
 Application filed in the EU for the treatment of patients with germline BRCA-mutated advanced breast cancer 
 
 — 
 
 June 2018 
 
 
 Xeljanz (tofacitinib) 
 
 Application approved in Japan for the treatment of ulcerative colitis 
 
 May 2018 
 
 — 
 
 
 crisaborole 
 
 Application filed in the EU for the treatment of mild-to-moderate atopic dermatitis 
 
 — 
 
 May 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 30 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 REGULATORY APPROVALS AND FILINGS IN THE EU AND JAPAN (cont’d.) 
 
 
 PRODUCT 
 
 DESCRIPTION OF EVENT 
 
 DATE APPROVED 
 
 DATE FILED* 
 
 
 Mylotarg (gemtuzumab ozogamicin) 
 
 Application approved in the EU for treatment of patients age 15 years and above with previously untreated, de novo, CD33-positive acute myeloid leukemia, except acute promyelocytic leukemia 
 
 April 2018 
 
 — 
 
 
 Bosulif (bosutinib) 
 
 Application approved in the EU for the treatment of adults with newly diagnosed chronic phase Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myelogenous leukemia (Ph+ CML), which is being developed in collaboration with Avillion 
 
 April 2018 
 
 — 
 
 
 dacomitinib (f) 
 
 Application filed in the EU for the first-line treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer with EGFR activating mutations, which is being developed in collaboration with SFJ 
 
 — 
 
 March 2018 
 
 
 Steglatro (ertugliflozin) 
 
 Approval in the EU as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus: 
 
 • as monotherapy in patients for whom the use of metformin is considered inappropriate due to intolerance or contraindications; and 
 
 • in addition to other medicinal products for the treatment of diabetes, which is being developed in collaboration with Merck 
 
 March 2018 
 
 — 
 
 
 Segluromet (ertugliflozin and metformin) 
 
 Approval in the EU as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus: 
 
 • in patients not adequately controlled on their maximally tolerated dose of metformin alone; 
 
 • in patients on their maximally tolerated doses of metformin in addition to other medicinal products for the treatment of diabetes; and 
 
 • in patients already being treated with the combination of ertugliflozin and metformin as separate tablets, which is being developed in collaboration with Merck 
 
 March 2018 
 
 — 
 
 
 Steglujan (ertugliflozin and sitagliptin) 
 
 Approval in the EU as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus: 
 
 • when metformin and/or a sulphonylurea (SU) and one of the monocomponents of Steglujan do not provide adequate glycaemic control; and 
 
 • in patients already being treated with the combination of ertugliflozin and sitagliptin as separate tablets, which is being developed in collaboration with Merck 
 
 March 2018 
 
 — 
 
 
 Xeljanz (tofacitinib) 
 
 Application filed in the EU for modified release 11mg tablet for RA 
 
 — 
 
 March 2018 
 
 
 lorlatinib (PF-06463922) 
 
 Application filed in the EU for the treatment of patients with ALK-positive metastatic non-small cell lung cancer, previously treated with one or more ALK inhibitors 
 
 — 
 
 February 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 For applications in the EU, the dates set forth in this column are the dates on which the EMA validated our submissions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 Avastin ® is a registered trademark of Genentech, Inc. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 Humira ® is a registered trademark of AbbVie Biotechnology Ltd. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 Herceptin ® is a registered trademark of Genentech, Inc. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) 
 
 Rituxan ® is a registered trademark of Biogen MA Inc. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (e) 
 
 Remicade ® is a registered Japan trademark of Janssen. In February 2016, we divested the rights for development and commercialization of PF-06438179, a potential biosimilar to Remicade ® (infliximab) in the 28 countries that form the EEA to Sandoz, which was a condition to the European Commission’s approval of the Hospira transaction. We retain commercialization rights to PF-06438179 in all countries outside of the EEA. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (f) 
 
 In February 2019, the EMA’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use adopted a positive opinion recommending marketing authorization for dacomitinib, as monotherapy, for the first-line treatment of adult patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with EGFR-activating mutations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 31 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 LATE-STAGE CLINICAL PROGRAMS FOR ADDITIONAL USES AND DOSAGE FORMS FOR IN-LINE AND IN-REGISTRATION PRODUCTS 
 
 
 PRODUCT 
 
 PROPOSED INDICATION 
 
 
 Bavencio (avelumab) 
 
 A monoclonal antibody that inhibits PD-L1, in combination with Inlyta (axitinib), a tyrosine kinase inhibitor, for the first-line treatment of advanced renal cell carcinoma, which is being developed in collaboration with Merck KGaA, Germany (ex-U.S./Japan) 
 
 
 Bavencio (avelumab) 
 
 A monoclonal antibody that inhibits PD-L1, in combination with Talzenna (talazoparib), in patients with previously untreated advanced ovarian cancer, which is being developed in collaboration with Merck KGaA, Germany 
 
 
 Bavencio (avelumab) 
 
 A monoclonal antibody that inhibits PD-L1 for the first-line treatment of stage IIIb/IV non-small cell lung cancer, which is being developed in collaboration with Merck KGaA, Germany 
 
 
 Bavencio (avelumab) 
 
 A monoclonal antibody that inhibits PD-L1 for maintenance treatment, in the first-line setting, for patients with urothelial cancer, which is being developed in collaboration with Merck KGaA, Germany 
 
 
 Bavencio (avelumab) 
 
 A monoclonal antibody that inhibits PD-L1 for maintenance treatment of advanced or metastatic gastric/ gastro-esophageal junction cancers, which is being developed in collaboration with Merck KGaA, Germany 
 
 
 Bavencio (avelumab) 
 
 A monoclonal antibody that inhibits PD-L1 for treatment of locally advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck, which is being developed in collaboration with Merck KGaA, Germany 
 
 
 Daurismo (glasdegib) 
 
 A smoothened inhibitor, in combination with azacitidine, for the treatment of acute myeloid leukemia 
 
 
 Ibrance (palbociclib) 
 
 Treatment of HER2+ advanced breast cancer, in collaboration with the Alliance Foundation Trials, LLC 
 
 
 Ibrance (palbociclib) 
 
 Treatment of high-risk early breast cancer, in collaboration with the German Breast Group 
 
 
 Ibrance (palbociclib) 
 
 Treatment of HR+ early breast cancer, in collaboration with the Alliance Foundation Trials, LLC, and the Austrian Breast Colorectal Cancer Study Group 
 
 
 Lorbrena (lorlatinib) 
 
 A next generation ALK/ROS1 tyrosine kinase inhibitor for the first-line treatment of patients with ALK-positive advanced non-small cell lung cancer 
 
 
 Xeljanz (tofacitinib) 
 
 Treatment of ankylosing spondylitis 
 
 
 Xtandi (enzalutamide) 
 
 Treatment of non-metastatic hormone-sensitive prostate cancer, which is being developed through a collaboration with Astellas 
 
 
 Xtandi (enzalutamide) 
 
 Treatment of metastatic hormone-sensitive prostate cancer, which is being developed through a collaboration with Astellas 
 
 
 Talzenna (talazoparib) 
 
 An oral PARP inhibitor, in combination with Xtandi (enzalutamide), for the treatment of metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer 
 In February 2018, we and our partner Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany, announced that the Bavencio Phase 3 trial in patients with previously treated NSCLC did not meet its pre-specified primary endpoint. The alliance made the decision to discontinue further development in this indication. 
 In November 2018, we and our partner Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany, announced that the Bavencio Phase 3 trial in platinum-resistant/refractory ovarian cancer did not meet the pre-specified primary endpoints . We continue to evaluate the detailed results of the trial. 
 In December 2018, we and our partner Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany, announced that data from a planned interim analysis of the Bavencio Phase 3 trial in previously untreated advanced ovarian cancer did not support the study’s initial hypothesis, and therefore the alliance made the decision to terminate the trial in alignment with the independent Data Monitoring Committee. 
 In February 2019, we announced that the company has taken steps to transition rheumatoid arthritis study patients who were on tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily to tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily in the FDA post-marketing requirement study A3921133, a study performed in patients considered to be at high risk for certain side effects. This action is being taken as the result of notification from the tofacitinib Rheumatology Data Safety Monitoring Board of a safety signal regarding the tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily treatment arm in study A3921133. The 5 mg twice daily dose is the FDA approved dose in the U.S. for adult patients with moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis. We continue to evaluate the information. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 NEW DRUG CANDIDATES IN LATE-STAGE DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 CANDIDATE 
 
 PROPOSED INDICATION 
 
 
 aztreonam-avibactam 
 (PF-06947387) 
 
 A beta lactam/beta lactamase inhibitor for the treatment of complicated intra-abdominal infections, hospital acquired pneumonia/ventilator associated pneumonia 
 
 
 fidanacogene elaparvovec (PF-06838435) 
 
 An investigational gene therapy for the treatment of hemophilia B 
 
 
 PF-06482077 
 
 A 20-Valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine for the prevention of invasive pneumococcal disease and pneumonia caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae serotypes covered by the vaccine in adults 18 years of age and older 
 
 
 PF-06651600 
 
 A Janus kinase 3 (JAK3) inhibitor for the treatment of patients with moderate to severe alopecia areata 
 
 
 PF-04965842 
 
 A Janus kinase 1 (JAK1) inhibitor for the treatment of moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis 
 
 
 PF-06425090 
 
 A prophylactic vaccine for active immunization to prevent clostridium difficile disease 
 
 
 rivipansel (GMI-1070) 
 
 A pan-selectin inhibitor for the treatment of vaso-occlusive crisis in hospitalized individuals with sickle cell disease, which was licensed from GlycoMimetics Inc. 
 
 
 somatrogon (PF-06836922) 
 
 A long-acting hGH-CTP for the treatment of growth hormone deficiency in children, which is being developed in collaboration with OPKO 
 
 
 somatrogon (PF-06836922) 
 
 A long-acting hGH-CTP for the treatment of growth hormone deficiency in adults, which is being developed in collaboration with OPKO 
 
 
 tanezumab 
 
 An anti-nerve growth factor monoclonal antibody for the treatment of pain, which is being developed in collaboration with Lilly 
 Additional product-related programs are in various stages of discovery and development. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 32 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 COSTS AND EXPENSES 
 
 The changes in expenses below reflect, among other things, the favorable impact of the February 2017 sale of HIS. The operating results of HIS are included in our operating results through February 2, 2017 and, therefore, operating results for 2017 include approximately one month of HIS domestic operations and approximately two months of HIS international operations, while operating results for 2016 reflect 12 months of HIS global operations. Our operating results for 2018 do not reflect any HIS global operations. 
 Cost of Sales 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 18/17 
 
 
 
 17/16 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 11,248 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 11,228 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 12,322 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 (9 
 
 ) 
 
 
 As a percentage of Revenues 
 
 
 
 21.0 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 21.4 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 23.3 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 v. 2017 
 Cost of sales increased $21 million , or were relatively flat in 2018 , compared to 2017 , primarily due to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 increased sales volumes primary related to key products within our product portfolio; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 higher costs across the SIP portfolio, as a result of the complexity of high quality product manufacture across the legacy Hospira plants, which was partially offset by decreases in other costs across various markets; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 an increase in royalty expenses based on the mix of products sold; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the unfavorable impact of hedging activity on intercompany inventory of $65 million , 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 lower volumes from the SIP portfolio, in developed markets, primarily due to increased competition across the SIP portfolio and continued legacy Hospira product shortages in the U.S.; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the non-recurrence of $195 million in inventory losses, overhead costs, and incremental costs related to the period in 2017 during which our Puerto Rico plants were not operational due to hurricanes; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the favorable impact of foreign exchange of $153 million ; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the non-recurrence of charges related to a product recall that occurred in 2017; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the favorable impact of the sale of HIS of $35 million. 
 The decrease in Cost of sales as a percentage of revenues in 2018 , compared to 2017 , was primarily due to all of the factors discussed above, as well as an increase in alliance revenues, which have no associated cost of sales. 
 2017 v. 2016 
 Cost of sales decreased $1.1 billion , or 9% , in 2017 , compared to 2016 , primarily due to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the favorable impact of the sale of HIS global operations (which carried a higher cost of sales than other products) of $561 million; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 recognition of synergies related to our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the nonrecurring unfavorable impact of $248 million of acquired Hospira inventory, which is measured at fair value on the acquisition date and was amortized over the turn of the related inventory; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the favorable impact of foreign exchange of $140 million and the favorable offset of hedging gains of $52 million ; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 a favorable change in product mix, including an operational decline in the SIP portfolio and the favorability attributed to products that have lost exclusivity, 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 $195 million in inventory losses, overhead costs related to the period in 2017 during which our Puerto Rico plants were not operational, and incremental costs, all of which resulted from the hurricanes in Puerto Rico. 
 The decrease in Cost of sales as a percentage of revenues in 2017 , compared to 2016 , was primarily due to all of the factors discussed above, as well as an increase in alliance revenues, which have no associated cost of sales. 
 
 Selling, Informational and Administrative (SI&A) Expenses 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 18/17 
 
 
 
 
 
 17/16 
 
 
 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 14,455 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 14,804 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 14,844 
 
 
 
 
 
 (2 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 As a percentage of Revenues 
 
 
 
 26.9 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 28.2 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 28.1 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 v. 2017 
 SI&A expenses decreased $350 million , or 2% , in 2018 , compared to 2017 , primarily due to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 lower advertising, promotional and field force expenses, as well as general and administrative expenses, reflecting the benefits of cost-reduction and productivity initiatives; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the non-recurrence of a $200 million charitable contribution to the Pfizer Foundation; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 decreased investment across several of our key products, primarily Viagra and Enbrel; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 33 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 lower healthcare reform expenses as a result of a true up of the prior year amount, 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 additional investment across several of our key products, primarily, Xeljanz, Ibrance, Eucrisa and Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 additional investments in China; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 a special, one-time bonus paid to virtually all Pfizer colleagues, excluding executives, of $119 million , in the aggregate, in the first quarter of 2018. 
 2017 v. 2016 
 SI&A expenses decreased $40 million , or were relatively flat in 2017 , compared to 2016 , primarily due to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the non-recurrence of an allowance for doubtful trade accounts receivable of approximately $265 million, resulting from unfavorable developments with a distributor that was recorded in the first quarter of 2016 ; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 lower advertising, promotional and field force expenses, reflecting the benefits of cost-reduction and productivity initiatives; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 lower spending for certain products, primarily Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the favorable impact of the sale of HIS global operations of $135 million; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 lower spending for Viagra due to the loss of exclusivity in December 2017, 
 offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 additional investment across several of our key products, primarily Eucrisa, Ibrance and Xeljanz, as well as biosimilars, primarily related to the U.S. launch of Inflectra; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 an increase in charitable contributions, including a $200 million charitable contribution to the Pfizer Foundation, an organization that provides grant and investment funding to support organizations and social entrepreneurs in an effort to improve healthcare delivery. 
 
 Research and Development (R&D) Expenses 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 18/17 
 
 
 
 17/16 
 
 
 
 
 Research and development expenses 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 8,006 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 7,683 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 7,892 
 
 
 
 
 
 4 
 
 
 
 (3 
 
 ) 
 
 
 As a percentage of Revenues 
 
 
 
 14.9 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 14.6 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 14.9 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 v. 2017 
 R&D expenses increased $322 million , or 4% , in 2018 , compared to 2017 , primarily due to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 increased costs associated with our Phase 3 clinical trials related to our JAK1 inhibitor (which was initiated in December 2017) and the C. difficile vaccine program (which was initiated in March 2017) as well as increased spending for our 20 valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine candidate; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 increased costs associated with the Bavencio program; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 an increase in the value of the portfolio performance share grants reflecting changes in the price of Pfizer’s common stock, as well as management’s assessment of the probability that the specified performance criteria will be achieved, 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 decreased spending for biosimilars as several programs have reached completion; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the impact of our decision to end internal neuroscience discovery and early development efforts. 
 2017 v. 2016 
 R&D expenses decreased $208 million , or 3% , in 2017 , compared to 2016 , primarily due to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 lower expenses of approximately $743 million due to the discontinuation of the global clinical development program for bococizumab in the fourth quarter of 2016 and the non-recurrence of its associated close-out costs; 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 increased costs associated with our oncology programs, primarily clinical trial spend on Medivation assets; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 lower development funding credits of approximately $124 million primarily related to the discontinuation of the global clinical development program for bococizumab in the fourth quarter of 2016; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 increased costs associated with our C. difficile vaccine program, which initiated a Phase 3 clinical study in March 2017; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 an expense of $75 million resulting from our May 2017 agreement with Sangamo to develop and commercialize gene therapy programs for Hemophilia A; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 increased costs associated with late stage development programs, including Xtandi, talazoparib and tanezumab. 
 For additional information on Cost of sales, SI&A and R&D expenses by operating segment, see the “Analysis of Operating Segment Information” section of this Financial Review. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 34 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization of Intangible Assets 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 18/17 
 
 
 
 17/16 
 
 
 Amortization of intangible assets 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 4,893 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 4,758 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 4,056 
 
 
 
 
 
 3 
 
 
 
 17 
 
 
 As a percentage of Revenues 
 
 
 
 9.1 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 9.1 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 7.7 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization of intangible assets increased $135 million , or 3% in 2018 , compared to 2017 , primarily due to amortization expense of approximately $151 million (pre-tax) in 2018 associated with the approval of Xtandi in the U.S. for the treatment of non-metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer. The U.S. approval resulted in the transfer of $2.7 billion from an indefinite-lived IPR&D intangible asset to a finite-lived Developed technology rights intangible asset. 
 Amortization of intangible assets increased $703 million , or 17% , in 2017 , compared to 2016 , primarily due to amortization expense of approximately $797 million (pre-tax) in 2017 associated with the identifiable intangible assets acquired from Medivation and Anacor, partially offset by assets that became fully amortized at the end of their estimated useful lives and the favorable impact of the February 2017 sale of HIS. 
 
 See also Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 10A. Identifiable Intangible Assets and Goodwill: Identifiable Intangible Assets. 
 
 Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 18/17 
 
 
 
 
 
 17/16 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges––acquisition-related costs (a) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 105 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 207 
 
 
 
 
 
 (64 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (49 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Restructuring charges/(credits)––cost reduction initiatives (b) 
 
 
 
 745 
 
 
 
 
 
 (75 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 849 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges 
 
 
 
 782 
 
 
 
 
 
 30 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,055 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 (97 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Transaction costs (c) 
 
 
 
 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 127 
 
 
 
 
 
 (62 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (97 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Integration costs (c) 
 
 
 
 260 
 
 
 
 
 
 317 
 
 
 
 
 
 383 
 
 
 
 
 
 (18 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (17 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 
 
 
 
 1,044 
 
 
 
 
 
 351 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,565 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 (78 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Net periodic benefit costs (d) 
 
 
 
 146 
 
 
 
 
 
 136 
 
 
 
 
 
 159 
 
 
 
 
 
 8 
 
 
 
 
 
 (15 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Total additional depreciation––asset restructuring 
 
 
 
 50 
 
 
 
 
 
 91 
 
 
 
 
 
 207 
 
 
 
 
 
 (45 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (56 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Total implementation costs 
 
 
 
 194 
 
 
 
 
 
 227 
 
 
 
 
 
 340 
 
 
 
 
 
 (15 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (33 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives (e) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,434 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 805 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 2,271 
 
 
 
 
 
 78 
 
 
 
 
 
 (65 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 Restructuring charges––acquisition-related costs include employee termination costs, asset impairments and other exit costs associated with business combinations. Charges for 2018 were primarily due to asset write downs, partially offset by the reversal of previously recorded accruals for employee termination costs related to our acquisition of Hospira. Restructuring charges for 2017 were primarily due to asset write-downs, partially offset by the reversal of previously recorded accruals for employee termination costs. For 2017 and 2016, restructuring charges––acquisition-related costs were mainly related to our acquisitions of Hospira and Medivation. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 Restructuring (credits)/charges––cost reduction initiatives relate to employee termination costs, asset impairments and other exit costs not associated with acquisitions. For 2018, the charges were primarily related to employee termination costs and asset write downs. The employee termination costs are associated with our improvements to operational effectiveness as part of the realignment of our organizational structure effective at the beginning of 2019. For 2017, the credits are mostly related to the reversal of previously recorded accruals for employee termination costs, partially offset by asset write downs. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 3. Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives . 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) 
 
 For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 1B . Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies : Adoption of New Accounting Standards in 2018 and Note 3. Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives . 
 
 
 
 
 
 (e) 
 
 Comprises Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs as well as costs associated with our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives included in Cost of sales , Research and development expenses, Selling, informational and administrative expenses and/or Other (income)/deductions––net as appropriate. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 3. Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives . 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 Indicates calculation not meaningful or result is equal to or greater than 100%. 
 
 In connection with our acquisition of Hospira in September 2015, we focused our efforts on achieving an appropriate cost structure for the combined company. We achieved our expected $1 billion of annual cost savings in connection with the Hospira acquisition, 25% more than our initial cost savings target of $800 million . The one-time costs to generate the savings were approximately $1 billion (not including costs of $215 million for full-year 2015 associated with the return of acquired IPR&D rights), and the majority of these costs were incurred within the three-year period post-acquisition. 
 
 In 2016, we substantially completed previously disclosed cost-reduction initiatives begun in 2014 associated with our 2014 global commercial structure reorganization, manufacturing plant network rationalization and optimization initiatives, and additional cost-reduction/productivity initiatives across the enterprise. Through December 31, 2016, we incurred $3.1 billion (pre-tax) in total costs for the 2014-2016 program. The cumulative ongoing annual cost savings associated with the 2014-2016 program (but not including expected cost savings associated with the 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 35 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Hospira acquisition), are approximately $3.1 billion. These savings were recognized, for the most part, through the end of 2016. However, savings from costs incurred in the last half of 2016 largely occurred in 2017. 
 
 2017-2019 Initiatives and Organizing for Growth 
 During 2018, as we reviewed our business opportunities and challenges and the way in which we think about our business operations, we determined that at the start of our 2019 fiscal year, we would begin operating under our new commercial structure, which reorganizes our operations into three businesses –– Biopharma, a science-based Innovative medicines business; Upjohn, a global off-patent branded and generic established medicines business; and a Consumer Healthcare business. To operate effectively in this structure and position ourselves for future growth, we are focused on creating a simpler, more efficient operating structure within each business as well as the functions that support them. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2018, we reviewed previously planned initiatives and new initiatives to ensure that there was alignment around our new structure and have combined the 2017 to 2019 initiatives with our current Organizing for Growth initiatives to form one cohesive plan. For the combined programs, to achieve targeted savings of approximately $1.9 billion , we expect to incur approximately $2.2 billion in costs over the three-year period 2017-2019. Of this amount, we expect approximately 40% to be related to manufacturing operations, and we expect approximately 20% of the charges to be non-cash. Anticipated savings through 2020 associated with the Organizing for Growth initiatives of approximately $500 million will be reinvested in our R&D pipeline and in selling and marketing to support our current and recently launched products and indications. For additional information about these programs and expected and actual total costs, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 3. Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives . 
 
 In addition to these major initiatives, we continuously monitor our operations for cost reduction and/or productivity opportunities, especially in light of the losses of exclusivity and the expiration of collaborative arrangements for various products. 
 
 Other (Income)/Deductions––Net 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 18/17 
 
 
 
 17/16 
 
 
 
 
 Other (income)/deductions—net 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 2,116 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,416 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 3,794 
 
 
 
 
 
 49 
 
 
 
 (63 
 
 ) 
 
 For information about the components of Other (income)/deductions—net , see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 4. Other (Income)/Deductions—Net. 
 
 See also the “Analysis of Operating Segment Information” section of this Financial Review. 
 
 PROVISION/(BENEFIT) FOR TAXES ON INCOME 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 18/17 
 
 
 
 17/16 
 
 
 Provision/(benefit) for taxes on income 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 706 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (9,049 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,123 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 Effective tax rate on continuing operations 
 
 
 
 5.9 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 (73.5 
 
 )% 
 
 
 
 13.4 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 Indicates calculation not meaningful or result is equal to or greater than 100%. 
 
 2018 v. 2017 
 
 The higher effective tax rate in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily the result of: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the non-recurrence of a $10.7 billion tax benefit recorded in 2017 to reflect the enactment of the TCJA, 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 tax benefits related to the TCJA, including certain current year tax initiatives as well as favorable adjustments to the provisional estimate of the impact of the legislation, reported and disclosed within the applicable measurement period, in accordance with guidance issued by the SEC; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the favorable change in the jurisdictional mix of earnings as a result of operating fluctuations in the normal course of business; as well as 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 an increase in tax benefits associated with the resolution of certain tax positions pertaining to prior years primarily with various foreign tax authorities, and the expiration of certain statutes of limitations. 
 2017 v. 2016 
 The lower effective tax rate in 2017 compared to 2016 was primarily the result of: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the tax benefits associated with the remeasurement of deferred tax liabilities, which includes the repatriation tax on deemed repatriated accumulated post-1986 earnings of foreign subsidiaries associated with the enactment of the TCJA; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 a favorable change in the jurisdictional mix of earnings as a result of operating fluctuations in the normal course of business, 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the decrease in tax benefits associated with the resolution of certain tax positions pertaining to prior years primarily with various foreign tax authorities and the expiration of certain statutes of limitations; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 36 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the non-recurrence of tax benefits related to the final resolution of an agreement in principle reached in February 2016 and finalized in April 2016 to resolve certain claims related to Protonix, which resulted in the receipt of information that raised our initial assessment in 2015 of the likelihood of prevailing on the technical merits of our tax position. 
 
 For details about discrete elements that impacted our tax provisions, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 5A. Tax Matters: Taxes on Income from Continuing Operations . 
 Changes in Tax Laws 
 
 On December 22, 2017, the U.S. enacted significant changes to U.S. tax law following the passage and signing of the TCJA. The TCJA is complex and significantly changes the U.S. corporate income tax system by, among other things, reducing the U.S. Federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, transitioning U.S. international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a territorial tax system and imposing a repatriation tax on deemed repatriated accumulated post-1986 earnings of foreign subsidiaries. In accordance with guidance issued by the SEC we recorded provisional estimates of the legislation in the fourth-quarter 2017. In 2018, we finalized our provisional accounting for the tax effects of the TCJA based on our best estimates of available information and data, and have reported and disclosed the impacts within the applicable measurement period, in accordance with guidance issued by the SEC. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 5A. Tax Matters: Taxes on Income from Continuing Operations and the “Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources––Selected Measures of Liquidity and Capital Resources—Contractual Obligations” section of this Financial Review. 
 
 On January 23, 2017, the Governor of Puerto Rico signed into law Act No. 3-2017, amending Section 2101 of the Puerto Rico Internal Revenue Code of 1994, which imposes an excise tax that was effective beginning in 2011 (Act 154). The excise tax is imposed on the purchase of products by multinational corporations and their affiliates from their Puerto Rico affiliates. As originally adopted, the excise tax was to be in effect from 2011 through 2016 and the tax rate was to decline over time from 4% in 2011 to 1% in 2016. Act No. 2-2013 extended the excise tax through 2017 and, effective July 1, 2013, increased the tax rate to 4% for all years through 2017. Act No. 3-2017 further extended the excise tax for all years through 2027 at a rate of 4%. The excise tax has been recorded in Cost of sales and Provision/(benefit) for taxes on income, as appropriate. All expected impacts in 2019 have been reflected in our financial guidance for 2019. 
 
 NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURE (ADJUSTED INCOME) 
 General Description of Non-GAAP Financial Measure (Adjusted Income) 
 
 Adjusted income is an alternative view of performance used by management. We measure the performance of the overall Company on this basis in conjunction with other performance metrics. Because Adjusted income is an important internal measurement for Pfizer, we believe that investors’ understanding of our performance is enhanced by disclosing this performance measure. We report Adjusted income, certain components of Adjusted income, and Adjusted diluted earnings per share in order to portray the results of our major operations––the discovery, development, manufacture, marketing and sale of prescription medicines, vaccines and consumer healthcare (OTC) products––prior to considering certain income statement elements. We have defined Adjusted income as Net income attributable to Pfizer Inc. before the impact of purchase accounting for acquisitions, acquisition-related costs, discontinued operations and certain significant items, which are described below. Similarly, we have defined the Adjusted income components as Cost of sales, Selling, informational and administrative expenses, Research and development expenses, Amortization of intangible assets and Other (income)/deductions––net each before the impact of purchase accounting for acquisitions, acquisition-related costs and certain significant items. We have defined Adjusted diluted earnings per share as Earnings per common share attributable to Pfizer Inc.––diluted before the impact of purchase accounting for acquisitions, acquisition-related costs, discontinued operations and certain significant items. The Adjusted income measure, the Adjusted income component measures and the Adjusted diluted earnings per share measure are not, and should not be viewed as,substitutes for U.S. GAAP net income, U.S. GAAP net income components or U.S. GAAP diluted earnings per share. 
 The following are examples of how the Adjusted income and Adjusted diluted earnings per share measures are utilized: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 senior management receives a monthly analysis of our operating results that is prepared on an Adjusted income and Adjusted diluted earnings per share basis; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 our annual budgets are prepared on an Adjusted income and Adjusted diluted earnings per share basis; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 senior management’s annual compensation is derived, in part, using Adjusted income and Adjusted diluted earnings per share measures. The bonus plans for virtually all bonus-eligible, non-sales-force employees worldwide, including the Executive Leadership Team members and other members of senior management, are funded from a pool based on the performance measured by three financial metrics, including Adjusted diluted earnings per share, which is derived from Adjusted income. This metric accounts for 40% of the bonus pool funding. In addition, Adjusted operating income, which is derived from Adjusted income, is one of the measures utilized to determine payout for performance share awards. 
 Adjusted income and its components and Adjusted diluted earnings per share are non-GAAP financial measures that have no standardized meaning prescribed by U.S. GAAP and, therefore, are limited in their usefulness to investors. Because of their non-standardized definitions, Adjusted income and its components (unlike U.S. GAAP net income and its components) and Adjusted diluted earnings per share (unlike U.S. GAAP diluted earnings per share) may not be comparable to the calculation of similar measures of other companies. Adjusted income and its components and Adjusted diluted earnings per share are presented solely to permit investors to more fully understand how management assesses performance. 
 
 We also recognize that, as internal measures of performance, the Adjusted income and its components and Adjusted diluted earnings per share measures have limitations, and we do not restrict our performance-management process solely to these metrics. A limitation of these measures is that they provide a view of our operations without including all events during a period, such as the effects of an acquisition or amortization of purchased intangibles, and do not provide a comparable view of our performance to other companies in the biopharmaceutical industry. We also use other specifically tailored tools designed to achieve the highest levels of performance. For example, our R&D organization has productivity targets, upon which its effectiveness is measured. In addition, total shareholder return, both on an absolute basis 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 37 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 and relative to a publicly traded pharmaceutical index, plays a significant role in determining payouts under certain of Pfizer’s long-term incentive compensation plans. 
 
 See the accompanying reconciliations of certain GAAP reported to non-GAAP adjusted information for 2018 , 2017 and 2016 below. 
 
 Purchase Accounting Adjustments 
 
 Adjusted income is calculated prior to considering certain significant purchase accounting impacts resulting from business combinations and net asset acquisitions. These impacts, primarily associated with Wyeth (acquired in 2009), Hospira (acquired in 2015), Anacor (acquired in June 2016) and Medivation (acquired in September 2016), can include the incremental charge to cost of sales from the sale of acquired inventory that was written up to fair value, amortization related to the increase in fair value of the acquired finite-lived intangible assets, and to a much lesser extent, depreciation related to the increase/decrease in fair value of the acquired fixed assets (primarily manufacturing facilities), amortization related to the increase in fair value of acquired debt, and the fair value changes associated with contingent consideration. Therefore, the Adjusted income measure includes the revenues earned upon the sale of the acquired products without considering the acquisition cost of those products. 
 
 Certain of the purchase accounting adjustments can occur through 20 or more years, but this presentation provides an alternative view of our performance that is used by management to internally assess business performance. We believe the elimination of amortization attributable to acquired intangible assets provides management and investors an alternative view of our business results by trying to provide a degree of parity to internally developed intangible assets for which R&D costs previously have been expensed. 
 
 However, a completely accurate comparison of internally developed intangible assets and acquired intangible assets cannot be achieved through Adjusted income. This component of Adjusted income is derived solely from the impacts of the items listed in the first paragraph of this section. We have not factored in the impacts of any other differences in experience that might have occurred if we had discovered and developed those intangible assets on our own, and this approach does not intend to be representative of the results that would have occurred in those circumstances. For example, our R&D costs in total, and in the periods presented, may have been different; our speed to commercialization and resulting sales, if any, may have been different; or our costs to manufacture may have been different. In addition, our marketing efforts may have been received differently by our customers. As such, in total, there can be no assurance that our Adjusted income amounts would have been the same as presented had we discovered and developed the acquired intangible assets. 
 
 Acquisition-Related Costs 
 
 Adjusted income is calculated prior to considering transaction, integration, restructuring and additional depreciation costs associated with business combinations because these costs are unique to each transaction and represent costs that were incurred to restructure and integrate two businesses as a result of the acquisition decision. For additional clarity, only transaction costs, additional depreciation and restructuring and integration activities that are associated with a business combination or a net-asset acquisition are included in acquisition-related costs. We have made no adjustments for the resulting synergies. 
 
 We believe that viewing income prior to considering these charges provides investors with a useful additional perspective because the significant costs incurred in connection with a business combination result primarily from the need to eliminate duplicate assets, activities or employees––a natural result of acquiring a fully integrated set of activities. For this reason, we believe that the costs incurred to convert disparate systems, to close duplicative facilities or to eliminate duplicate positions (for example, in the context of a business combination) can be viewed differently from those costs incurred in other, more normal, business contexts. 
 
 The integration and restructuring costs associated with a business combination may occur over several years, with the more significant impacts typically ending within three years of the transaction. Because of the need for certain external approvals for some actions, the span of time needed to achieve certain restructuring and integration activities can be lengthy. For example, due to the highly regulated nature of the pharmaceutical business, the closure of excess facilities can take several years, as all manufacturing changes are subject to extensive validation and testing and must be approved by the FDA and/or other global regulatory authorities. 
 
 Discontinued Operations 
 
 Adjusted income is calculated prior to considering the results of operations included in discontinued operations, as well as any related gains or losses on the disposal of such operations. We believe that this presentation is meaningful to investors because, while we review our businesses and product lines for strategic fit with our operations, we do not build or run our businesses with the intent to sell them. Restatements due to discontinued operations do not impact compensation or change the Adjusted income measure for the compensation in respect of the restated periods, but are presented for consistency across all periods. 
 
 Certain Significant Items 
 
 Adjusted income is calculated prior to considering certain significant items. Certain significant items represent substantive and/or unusual items that are evaluated on an individual basis. Such evaluation considers both the quantitative and the qualitative aspects of their nature. Certain significant items may be highly variable and difficult to predict. Furthermore, in some cases it is reasonably possible that they could reoccur in future periods. For example, major non-acquisition-related cost-reduction programs stand on their own as they are specific to an event or goal with a defined term, but we may have subsequent programs based on reorganizations of the business, cost productivity or in response to loss of exclusivity or economic conditions. Legal charges to resolve litigation are also related to specific cases, which are facts and circumstances specific and, in some cases, may also be the result of litigation matters at acquired companies that were inestimable, not probable or unresolved at the date of acquisition. Unusual items may represent items that are not part of our ongoing business; items that, either as a result of their nature or size, we would not expect to occur as part of our normal business on a regular basis; items that would be non-recurring; or items that relate to products we no longer sell. While not all-inclusive, examples of items that could be included as certain 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 38 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 significant items would be a major non-acquisition-related restructuring charge and associated implementation costs; amounts related to certain disposals of businesses, products or facilities that do not qualify as discontinued operations under U.S. GAAP; certain intangible asset impairments; adjustments related to the resolution of certain tax positions; the impact of adopting certain significant, event-driven tax legislation, such as the TCJA discussed in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 5A. Tax Matters: Taxes on Income from Continuing Operations or charges related to certain legal matters, such as certain of those discussed in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 17A. Contingencies and Certain Commitments : Legal Proceedings and in Part II, ITEM 1, “Legal Proceedings” in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. Normal, ongoing defense costs of the Company or settlements of and accruals for legal matters made in the normal course of our business would not be considered certain significant items. 
 
 Beginning In 2019, we will exclude the gains and losses from equity securities from our measure of Adjusted income because of their inherent volatility, which we do not control and cannot predict with any level of certainty and because we do not believe that including these gains and losses assists investors in understanding our business or is reflective of our core operations and business. For example, we contributed assets related to our allogeneic CAR T therapy to Allogene and received equity securities. We will restate our Adjusted income and Adjusted diluted EPS for prior periods for consistency with our 2019 presentation. 
 Reconciliation of GAAP Reported to Non-GAAP Adjusted Information––Certain Line Items 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER COMMON SHARE DATA 
 
 
 
 GAAP Reported 
 
 
 
 
 
 Purchase Accounting Adjustments (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Acquisition-Related Costs (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Discontinued Operations (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Certain Significant Items (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Non-GAAP Adjusted 
 
 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 53,647 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 53,647 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 
 
 11,248 
 
 
 
 
 
 3 
 
 
 
 
 
 (10 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (110 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 11,130 
 
 
 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses 
 
 
 
 14,455 
 
 
 
 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 (2 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (222 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 14,232 
 
 
 
 
 Research and development expenses 
 
 
 
 8,006 
 
 
 
 
 
 3 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (47 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 7,962 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization of intangible assets 
 
 
 
 4,893 
 
 
 
 
 
 (4,612 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 281 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 
 
 
 
 1,044 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (299 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (745 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Other (income)/deductions––net 
 
 
 
 2,116 
 
 
 
 
 
 (182 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (7 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (3,181 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (1,253 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Income from continuing operations before provision/(benefit) for taxes on income 
 
 
 
 11,885 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,786 
 
 
 
 
 
 318 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,305 
 
 
 
 
 
 21,294 
 
 
 
 
 Provision/(benefit) for taxes on income (b) 
 
 
 
 706 
 
 
 
 
 
 915 
 
 
 
 
 
 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,625 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,301 
 
 
 
 
 Income from continuing operations 
 
 
 
 11,179 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,871 
 
 
 
 
 
 264 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,680 
 
 
 
 
 
 17,994 
 
 
 
 
 Discontinued operations––net of tax 
 
 
 
 10 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (10 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 
 
 
 
 36 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 36 
 
 
 
 
 Net income attributable to Pfizer Inc. 
 
 
 
 11,153 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,871 
 
 
 
 
 
 264 
 
 
 
 
 
 (10 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 2,680 
 
 
 
 
 
 17,958 
 
 
 
 
 Earnings per common share attributable to Pfizer Inc.––diluted 
 
 
 
 1.87 
 
 
 
 
 
 0.65 
 
 
 
 
 
 0.04 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 0.45 
 
 
 
 
 
 3.00 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 39 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER COMMON SHARE DATA 
 
 
 
 GAAP Reported 
 
 
 
 
 
 Purchase Accounting Adjustments (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Acquisition-Related Costs (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Discontinued Operations (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Certain Significant Items (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Non-GAAP Adjusted 
 
 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 52,546 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 52,546 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 
 
 11,228 
 
 
 
 
 
 (47 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (39 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (363 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 10,778 
 
 
 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses 
 
 
 
 14,804 
 
 
 
 
 
 (16 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (299 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 14,489 
 
 
 
 
 Research and development expenses 
 
 
 
 7,683 
 
 
 
 
 
 8 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (38 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 7,653 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization of intangible assets 
 
 
 
 4,758 
 
 
 
 
 
 (4,565 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 193 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 
 
 
 
 351 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (426 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 75 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Other (income)/deductions––net 
 
 
 
 1,416 
 
 
 
 
 
 (138 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 9 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (2,020 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (733 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Income from continuing operations before provision/(benefit) for taxes on income 
 
 
 
 12,305 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,758 
 
 
 
 
 
 456 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,647 
 
 
 
 
 
 20,166 
 
 
 
 
 Provision/(benefit) for taxes on income (b) 
 
 
 
 (9,049 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 1,331 
 
 
 
 
 
 173 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 11,577 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,033 
 
 
 
 
 Income from continuing operations 
 
 
 
 21,353 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,426 
 
 
 
 
 
 283 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (8,930 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 16,132 
 
 
 
 
 Discontinued operations––net of tax 
 
 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (2 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 
 
 
 
 47 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 47 
 
 
 
 
 Net income attributable to Pfizer Inc. 
 
 
 
 21,308 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,426 
 
 
 
 
 
 283 
 
 
 
 
 
 (2 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (8,930 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 16,085 
 
 
 
 
 Earnings per common share attributable to Pfizer Inc.––diluted 
 
 
 
 3.52 
 
 
 
 
 
 0.57 
 
 
 
 
 
 0.05 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (1.47 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 2.65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER COMMON SHARE DATA 
 
 
 
 GAAP Reported 
 
 
 
 
 
 Purchase Accounting Adjustments (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Acquisition-Related Costs (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Discontinued Operations (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Certain Significant Items (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Non-GAAP Adjusted 
 
 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 52,824 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 52,824 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 
 
 12,322 
 
 
 
 
 
 (295 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (7 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (397 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 11,622 
 
 
 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses 
 
 
 
 14,844 
 
 
 
 
 
 (3 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (89 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 14,751 
 
 
 
 
 Research and development expenses 
 
 
 
 7,892 
 
 
 
 
 
 3 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (34 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 7,861 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization of intangible assets 
 
 
 
 4,056 
 
 
 
 
 
 (3,928 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 128 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 
 
 
 
 1,565 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (716 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (849 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Other (income)/deductions––net 
 
 
 
 3,794 
 
 
 
 
 
 39 
 
 
 
 
 
 (62 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (4,519 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (748 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Income from continuing operations before provision/(benefit) for taxes on income 
 
 
 
 8,351 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,185 
 
 
 
 
 
 785 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 5,888 
 
 
 
 
 
 19,210 
 
 
 
 
 Provision/(benefit) for taxes on income (b) 
 
 
 
 1,123 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,248 
 
 
 
 
 
 104 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,943 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,418 
 
 
 
 
 Income from continuing operations 
 
 
 
 7,229 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,937 
 
 
 
 
 
 682 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,944 
 
 
 
 
 
 14,792 
 
 
 
 
 Discontinued operations––net of tax 
 
 
 
 17 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (17 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 
 
 
 
 31 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 31 
 
 
 
 
 Net income attributable to Pfizer Inc. 
 
 
 
 7,215 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,937 
 
 
 
 
 
 682 
 
 
 
 
 
 (17 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 3,944 
 
 
 
 
 
 14,761 
 
 
 
 
 Earnings per common share attributable to Pfizer Inc.––diluted 
 
 
 
 1.17 
 
 
 
 
 
 0.48 
 
 
 
 
 
 0.11 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 0.64 
 
 
 
 
 
 2.40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 For details of adjustments, see “Details of Income Statement Items Included in GAAP Reported but Excluded from Non-GAAP Adjusted Income” below. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 The effective tax rate on Non-GAAP Adjusted income was 15.5% in 2018 , 20.0% in 2017 and 23.0% in 2016 . The decrease in the effective tax rate on Non-GAAP Adjusted income for 2018 compared with 2017 was primarily due to tax benefits associated with the December 2017 enactment of the TCJA, a favorable change in the jurisdictional mix of earnings as a result of operating fluctuations in the normal course of business, as well as an increase in benefits associated with the resolution of certain tax positions pertaining to prior years primarily with various foreign tax authorities, and the expiration of certain statutes of limitations. The decline in the effective tax rate on Non-GAAP Adjusted income in 2017 compared to 2016 was primarily due to tax benefits associated with the enactment of the TCJA, primarily reflecting the remeasurement of U.S. deferred tax liabilities on deemed repatriated post-1986 earnings of foreign subsidiaries that were accrued during 2017, as well as a favorable change in the jurisdictional mix of earnings as a result of operating fluctuations in the normal course of business, partially offset by a decrease in benefits associated with the resolution of certain tax positions pertaining to prior years primarily with various foreign tax authorities, and the expiration of certain statutes of limitations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 40 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Details of Income Statement Items Included in GAAP Reported but Excluded from Non-GAAP Adjusted Income 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Adjusted income, as shown above, excludes the following items: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 Purchase accounting adjustments 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization, depreciation and other (a) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 4,789 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 4,711 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 3,890 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 
 
 (3 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 47 
 
 
 
 
 
 295 
 
 
 
 
 Total purchase accounting adjustments—pre-tax 
 
 
 
 4,786 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,758 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,185 
 
 
 
 
 Income taxes (b) 
 
 
 
 (915 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (1,331 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (1,248 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Total purchase accounting adjustments—net of tax 
 
 
 
 3,871 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,426 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,937 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Acquisition-related costs 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges (c) 
 
 
 
 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 105 
 
 
 
 
 
 207 
 
 
 
 
 Transaction costs (c) 
 
 
 
 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 127 
 
 
 
 
 Integration costs (c) 
 
 
 
 260 
 
 
 
 
 
 317 
 
 
 
 
 
 383 
 
 
 
 
 Net periodic benefit costs/(credits) other than service costs (d) 
 
 
 
 7 
 
 
 
 
 
 (9 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 62 
 
 
 
 
 Additional depreciation—asset restructuring (e) 
 
 
 
 12 
 
 
 
 
 
 39 
 
 
 
 
 
 7 
 
 
 
 
 Total acquisition-related costs—pre-tax 
 
 
 
 318 
 
 
 
 
 
 456 
 
 
 
 
 
 785 
 
 
 
 
 Income taxes (f) 
 
 
 
 (54 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (173 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (104 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Total acquisition-related costs—net of tax 
 
 
 
 264 
 
 
 
 
 
 283 
 
 
 
 
 
 682 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Discontinued operations 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total discontinued operations—net of tax, attributable to Pfizer Inc. (g) 
 
 
 
 (10 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (2 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (17 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Certain significant items 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges/(credits) –– cost reduction initiatives (h) 
 
 
 
 745 
 
 
 
 
 
 (75 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 849 
 
 
 
 
 Implementation costs and additional depreciation—asset restructuring (i) 
 
 
 
 232 
 
 
 
 
 
 279 
 
 
 
 
 
 540 
 
 
 
 
 Certain legal matters, net (j) 
 
 
 
 157 
 
 
 
 
 
 237 
 
 
 
 
 
 494 
 
 
 
 
 Loss on sale and impairment on remeasurement of HIS net assets (j) 
 
 
 
 (1 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 55 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,712 
 
 
 
 
 Certain asset impairments (j) 
 
 
 
 3,101 
 
 
 
 
 
 379 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,426 
 
 
 Business and legal entity alignment costs (j) 
 
 
 
 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 71 
 
 
 
 
 
 261 
 
 
 
 
 Net losses on early retirement of debt (i) 
 
 
 
 3 
 
 
 
 
 
 999 
 
 
 
 
 
 312 
 
 
 
 
 Other (k) 
 
 
 
 65 
 
 
 
 
 
 700 
 
 
 
 
 
 294 
 
 
 
 
 Total certain significant items—pre-tax 
 
 
 
 4,305 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,647 
 
 
 
 
 
 5,888 
 
 
 
 
 Income taxes (l) 
 
 
 
 (1,625 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (11,577 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (1,943 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Total certain significant items—net of tax 
 
 
 
 2,680 
 
 
 
 
 
 (8,930 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 3,944 
 
 
 
 
 Total purchase accounting adjustments, acquisition-related costs, discontinued operations and certain significant items—net of tax, attributable to Pfizer Inc. 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 6,805 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (5,223 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 7,546 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 Included primarily in Amortization of intangible assets . 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 Included in Provision/(benefit) for taxes on income. Income taxes includes the tax effect of the associated pre-tax amounts, calculated by determining the jurisdictional location of the pre-tax amounts and applying that jurisdiction’s applicable tax rate. Income taxes recorded in 2017 do not reflect any changes associated with the enactment of the TCJA. These changes resulting from the TCJA have been reflected in the line ITEM, Certain significant items “Income taxes”. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 Included in Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs . Restructuring charges include employee termination costs, asset impairments and other exit costs associated with business combinations. Restructuring charges in 2018 were primarily due to asset write downs, partially offset by the reversal of previously recorded accruals for employee termination costs related to our acquisition of Hospira. Restructuring charges for 2017 were primarily due to asset write-downs, partially offset by the reversal of previously recorded accruals for employee termination costs. For 2017 and 2016, restructuring charges––acquisition-related costs were mainly related to our acquisitions of Hospira and Medivation. Transaction costs represent external costs for banking, legal, accounting and other similar services. Integration costs represent external, incremental costs directly related to integrating acquired businesses, and primarily include expenditures for consulting and the integration of systems and processes. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 3 . Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives . 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) 
 
 Amounts for the 2017 and 2016 represent the net periodic benefit costs/(credits), excluding service costs, reclassified to Other (income)/deductions––net as a result of the retrospective adoption of a new accounting standard in the first quarter of 2018. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 1B. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies : Adoption of New Accounting Standards in 2018 . The credits for full-year 2017 included a net settlement gain, partially offset by accelerated amortization of actuarial losses and prior service costs upon the settlement of the remaining obligation associated with the Hospira U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plan. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (e) 
 
 Primarily included in C ost of sales. Represents the impact of changes in estimated useful lives of assets involved in restructuring actions related to acquisitions . 
 
 
 
 
 
 (f) 
 
 Included in Provision/(benefit) for taxes on income. Income taxes includes the tax effect of the associated pre-tax amounts, calculated by determining the jurisdictional location of the pre-tax amounts and applying that jurisdiction’s applicable tax rate. Income taxes recorded in 2017 do not reflect any changes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 41 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 associated with the December 2017 enactment of the TCJA. These changes resulting from the TCJA have been reflected in Certain significant items “Income taxes”. 2016 also includes an unfavorable impact of the remeasurement of certain deferred tax liabilities resulting from our plant network restructuring activities. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (g) 
 
 Included in Discontinued operations––net of tax. For all years presented, represents post-close adjustments. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (h) 
 
 Amounts relate to employee termination costs, asset impairments and other exit costs not associated with acquisitions, which are included in Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 3 . Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives ). For 2018, the charges were primarily related to employee termination costs and asset write downs. The employee termination costs are associated with our improvements to operational effectiveness as part of the realignment of our organizational structure effective at the beginning of 2019. For 2017, the credits were mostly related to the reversal of previously recorded accruals for employee termination costs, partially offset by asset write downs. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (i) 
 
 Amounts relate to our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives not related to acquisitions (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 3. Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives ). For 2018 , included in Cost of sales ( $121 million ), Selling, informational and administrative expenses ( $72 million ) and Research and development expenses ( $39 million ). For 2017 , included in Cost of sales ( $170 million ), Selling, informational and administrative expenses ( $71 million ) and Research and development expenses ( $38 million ). For 2016 , primarily included in Cost of sales ( $423 million ), Selling, informational and administrative expenses ( $81 million ) and Research and development expenses ( $32 million ). 
 
 
 
 
 
 (j) 
 
 Included in Other (income)/deductions—net (see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 4. Other (Income)/Deductions—Net ). 
 
 
 
 
 
 (k) 
 
 For 2018 , included in Cost of sales ( $10 million income), Selling, informational and administrative expenses ( $151 million ), Research and development expenses ( $8 million ) and Other (income)/deductions––net ( $83 million income). For 2017 , included in Cost of sales ( $193 million ), Selling, informational and administrative expenses ( $229 million ) and Other (income)/deductions––net ( $278 million ). For 2016 , primarily included in Cost of sales ( $27 million income), Selling, informational and administrative expenses ( $8 million ) and Other (income)/deductions––net ( $311 million ). For 2018 , includes, among other things, (i) a non-cash $343 million pre-tax gain in Other (income)/deductions––net associated with our transaction with Bain Capital to create a new biopharmaceutical company, Cerevel, to continue development of a portfolio of clinical and preclinical stage neuroscience assets primarily targeting disorders of the central nervous system, (ii) a $119 million charge, in the aggregate, in Selling, informational and administrative expenses for a special, one-time bonus paid to virtually all Pfizer colleagues, excluding executives, which was one of several actions taken by us after evaluating the expected positive net impact of the December 2017 enactment of the legislation commonly referred to as the TCJA, (iii) $59 million of incremental costs associated with the design, planning and implementation of the new organizational structure, effective in the beginning of 2019, and primarily include consulting, legal, tax, and advisory services and (iv) a non-cash $50 million pre-tax gain in Other (income)/deductions––net as a result of the contribution of our allogeneic chimeric antigen receptor T cell therapy development program assets in connection with our contribution agreement entered into with Allogene (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 2B. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Arrangements, Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements, Equity-Method Investments and Privately Held Investment : Divestitures ). For 2017 includes, among other things, (i) a charitable contribution to the Pfizer Foundation of $200 million , which is included in Selling, i nformational and administrative expenses ; (ii) $195 million in inventory losses, overhead costs related to the period in which our Puerto Rico plants were not operational, and incremental costs, all of which resulted from hurricanes in Puerto Rico in 2017 and are included in Cost of sales ; (iii) an $81 million loss related to the sale of our 49% equity share in Hisun Pfizer, which is included in Other (income)/deductions––net; and (iv) a net loss of $30 million related to the sale of our then 40% ownership investment in Teuto, including the extinguishment of a put option for the remaining 60% ownership interest, which is included in Other (income)/deductions––net . For 2016, includes, among other things, $150 million paid to Allergan for reimbursement of Allergan's expenses associated with the terminated transaction, which is included in Other (income)/deductions—net . 
 
 
 
 
 
 (l) 
 
 Included in Provision/(benefit) for taxes on income. Income taxes includes the tax effect of the associated pre-tax amounts, calculated by determining the jurisdictional location of the pre-tax amounts and applying that jurisdiction’s applicable tax rate. The amount in 2018 was favorably impacted primarily by tax benefits related to the TCJA, including certain current year tax initiatives as well as adjustments to the provisional estimate of the legislation, reported and disclosed within the applicable measurement period, in accordance with guidance issued by the SEC. The amount in 2017 was favorably impacted by tax benefits primarily associated with the remeasurement of deferred tax liabilities, which includes the repatriation tax on deemed repatriated accumulated post-1986 earnings of foreign subsidiaries associated with the TCJA. The amount in 2016 was favorably impacted by benefits related to the final resolution of an agreement in principle reached in February 2016 and finalized in April 2016 to resolve certain claims related to Protonix, which resulted in the receipt of information that raised our initial assessment in 2015 of the likelihood of prevailing on the technical merits of our tax position. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 5A. Tax Matters : Taxes on Income from Continuing Operations . 
 
 ANALYSIS OF OPERATING SEGMENT INFORMATION 
 
 The following tables and associated notes provide additional information about the performance of our two operating segments for the periods presented—the IH segment and the EH segment. For additional information about each operating segment, see the “Our Strategy –– Commercial Operations” section of this Financial Review and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 18. Segment, Geographic and Other Revenue Information . 
 As described in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 1A. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies: Basis of Presentation , acquisitions and divestitures have impacted our results of operations in 2017 and 2016 . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 42 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following tables provide revenue and cost information by reportable operating segment and a reconciliation of that information to our consolidated statements of income: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 Innovative Health (IH) (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Essential Health (EH) (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Other (b) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Non-GAAP Adjusted (c) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Reconciling Items (d) 
 
 
 
 
 
 GAAP Reported 
 
 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 33,426 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 20,221 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 53,647 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 53,647 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 
 
 4,140 
 
 
 
 
 
 6,056 
 
 
 
 
 
 934 
 
 
 
 
 
 11,130 
 
 
 
 
 
 118 
 
 
 
 
 
 11,248 
 
 
 
 
 % of revenue 
 
 
 
 12.4 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 29.9 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 20.7 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 21.0 
 
 % 
 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses 
 
 
 
 6,961 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,612 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,659 
 
 
 
 
 
 14,232 
 
 
 
 
 
 223 
 
 
 
 
 
 14,455 
 
 
 
 
 Research and development expenses 
 
 
 
 2,866 
 
 
 
 
 
 937 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,160 
 
 
 
 
 
 7,962 
 
 
 
 
 
 43 
 
 
 
 
 
 8,006 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization of intangible assets 
 
 
 
 219 
 
 
 
 
 
 62 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 281 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,612 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,893 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,044 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,044 
 
 
 
 
 Other (income)/deductions––net 
 
 
 
 (1,017 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (158 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (78 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (1,253 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 3,369 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,116 
 
 
 
 
 Income/(loss) from continuing operations before provision/(benefit) for taxes on income 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 20,258 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 10,712 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (9,676 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 21,294 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (9,409 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 11,885 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 Innovative Health (IH) (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Essential Health (EH) (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Other (b) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Non-GAAP Adjusted (c) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Reconciling Items (d) 
 
 
 
 
 
 GAAP Reported 
 
 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 31,422 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 21,124 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 52,546 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 52,546 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 
 
 4,091 
 
 
 
 
 
 5,937 
 
 
 
 
 
 750 
 
 
 
 
 
 10,778 
 
 
 
 
 
 449 
 
 
 
 
 
 11,228 
 
 
 
 
 % of revenue 
 
 
 
 13.0 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 28.1 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 20.5 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 21.4 
 
 % 
 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses 
 
 
 
 6,727 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,898 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,864 
 
 
 
 
 
 14,489 
 
 
 
 
 
 316 
 
 
 
 
 
 14,804 
 
 
 
 
 Research and development expenses 
 
 
 
 2,544 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,052 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,057 
 
 
 
 
 
 7,653 
 
 
 
 
 
 31 
 
 
 
 
 
 7,683 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization of intangible assets 
 
 
 
 129 
 
 
 
 
 
 65 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 193 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,565 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,758 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 351 
 
 
 
 
 
 351 
 
 
 
 
 Other (income)/deductions––net 
 
 
 
 (878 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (287 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 432 
 
 
 
 
 
 (733 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 2,150 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,416 
 
 
 
 
 Income/(loss) from continuing operations before provision/(benefit) for taxes on income 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 18,809 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 11,460 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (10,104 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 20,166 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (7,861 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 12,305 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 Innovative Health (IH) (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Essential Health (EH) (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Other (b) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Non-GAAP Adjusted (c) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Reconciling Items (d) 
 
 
 
 
 
 GAAP Reported 
 
 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 29,197 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 23,627 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 52,824 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 52,824 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 
 
 4,049 
 
 
 
 
 
 6,272 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,301 
 
 
 
 
 
 11,622 
 
 
 
 
 
 699 
 
 
 
 
 
 12,322 
 
 
 
 
 % of revenue 
 
 
 
 13.9 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 26.5 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 22.0 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 23.3 
 
 % 
 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses 
 
 
 
 6,957 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,296 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,499 
 
 
 
 
 
 14,751 
 
 
 
 
 
 92 
 
 
 
 
 
 14,844 
 
 
 
 
 Research and development expenses 
 
 
 
 2,921 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,237 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,703 
 
 
 
 
 
 7,861 
 
 
 
 
 
 31 
 
 
 
 
 
 7,892 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization of intangible assets 
 
 
 
 102 
 
 
 
 
 
 26 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 128 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,928 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,056 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,565 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,565 
 
 
 
 
 Other (income)/deductions––net 
 
 
 
 (998 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (269 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 519 
 
 
 
 
 
 (748 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 4,543 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,794 
 
 
 
 
 Income/(loss) from continuing operations before provision/(benefit) for taxes on income 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 16,166 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 13,065 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (10,021 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 19,210 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (10,858 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 8,351 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 Indicates calculation not meaningful or result is equal to or greater than 100%. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 Amounts represent the revenues and costs managed by each of our operating segments. The expenses generally include only those costs directly attributable to the operating segment. 
 The following organizational change impacted our operating segments in 2018: 
 Effective in the first quarter of 2018, certain costs for Pfizer’s StratCO group, which were previously reported in the operating results of our operating segments and Corporate, are reported in Other Unallocated. StratCO costs primarily include headcount costs, vendor costs and data costs largely in support of Pfizer’s commercial operations. The majority of the StratCO costs reflect additional amounts that our operating segments would have incurred had each segment operated as a standalone company during the periods presented. The reporting change was made to streamline accountability and speed decision making. In 2017, we reclassified approximately $468 million of costs from IH, approximately $176 million of costs from EH and approximately $70 million of costs from Corporate to Other unallocated costs to conform to the current period presentation, and in 2016, we reclassified approximately $312 million of costs from IH, approximately $167 million of costs from EH and approximately $43 million of costs from Corporate to Other unallocated costs to conform to the current period presentation. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 43 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 Other comprises the revenues and costs included in our Adjusted income components (see footnote (c) below) that are managed outside of our two operating segments and includes the following: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Other Business Activities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 WRD (i) 
 
 
 
 GPD (ii) 
 
 
 
 Corporate (iii) 
 
 
 
 Other 
 Unallocated (iv) 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 168 
 
 
 
 
 
 767 
 
 
 
 
 
 934 
 
 
 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,958 
 
 
 
 
 
 701 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,659 
 
 
 
 
 Research and development expenses 
 
 
 
 2,341 
 
 
 
 
 
 788 
 
 
 
 
 
 957 
 
 
 
 
 
 73 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,160 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization of intangible assets 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Other (income)/deductions––net 
 
 
 
 (148 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (5 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 13 
 
 
 
 
 
 62 
 
 
 
 
 
 (78 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Loss from continuing operations before provision/(benefit) for taxes on income 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (2,193 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (784 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (5,096 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (1,603 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (9,676 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Other Business Activities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 WRD (i) 
 
 
 
 GPD (ii) 
 
 
 
 Corporate (iii) 
 
 
 
 Other 
 Unallocated (iv) 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 32 
 
 
 
 
 
 718 
 
 
 
 
 
 750 
 
 
 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (1 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 4,159 
 
 
 
 
 
 706 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,864 
 
 
 
 
 Research and development expenses 
 
 
 
 2,402 
 
 
 
 
 
 783 
 
 
 
 
 
 823 
 
 
 
 
 
 50 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,057 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization of intangible assets 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Other (income)/deductions––net 
 
 
 
 (42 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (5 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 439 
 
 
 
 
 
 40 
 
 
 
 
 
 432 
 
 
 
 
 Loss from continuing operations before provision/(benefit) for taxes on income 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (2,361 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (777 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (5,452 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (1,514 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (10,104 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Other Business Activities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 WRD (i) 
 
 
 
 GPD (ii) 
 
 
 
 Corporate (iii) 
 
 
 
 Other 
 Unallocated (iv) 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 198 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,103 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,301 
 
 
 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,957 
 
 
 
 
 
 542 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,499 
 
 
 
 
 Research and development expenses 
 
 
 
 2,359 
 
 
 
 
 
 690 
 
 
 
 
 
 612 
 
 
 
 
 
 41 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,703 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization of intangible assets 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Other (income)/deductions––net 
 
 
 
 (28 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (2 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 681 
 
 
 
 
 
 (131 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 519 
 
 
 
 
 Loss from continuing operations before provision/(benefit) for taxes on income 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (2,332 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (688 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (5,448 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (1,554 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (10,021 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 (i) 
 
 WRD—the R&D expenses managed by our WRD organization, which is generally responsible for research projects for our IH business until proof-of-concept is achieved and then for transitioning those projects to the IH segment via the GPD organization for possible clinical and commercial development. R&D spending may include upfront and milestone payments for intellectual property rights. The WRD organization also has responsibility for certain science-based and other platform-services organizations, which provide technical expertise and other services to the various R&D projects, including EH R&D projects. WRD is also responsible for facilitating all regulatory submissions and interactions with regulatory agencies, including all safety-event activities. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (ii) 
 
 GPD––the costs associated with our GPD organization, which is generally responsible for the operational execution of clinical trials for both early-stage assets in the WRD portfolio as well as late-stage assets in the Innovative portfolio. GPD also provides technical support and other services to Pfizer R&D projects. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (iii) 
 
 Corporate—the costs associated with Corporate, representing platform functions (such as worldwide technology, global real estate operations, legal, finance, human resources, worldwide public affairs, compliance, and worldwide procurement), the provision of medical information to healthcare providers, patients and other parties, transparency and disclosure activities, clinical trial results publication, grants for healthcare quality improvement and medical education, and partnerships with global public health and medical associations, as well as certain compensation and other corporate costs, such as interest income and expense, and gains and losses on investments. Effective in the first quarter of 2018, certain costs for StratCO, which were previously reported in the operating results of our operating segments and Corporate, are reported in Other Unallocated. For additional information, see note (iv) below. 
 We recognized a net $13 million loss in 2018 in Cost of sales primarily related to euro-denominated losses, partially offset by Japanese yen denominated gains on forward-exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges of a portion of our foreign exchange-denominated intercompany forecasted inventory sales. We recognized a $52 million gain in 2017 as an offset to Cost of sales related to foreign currency forward-exchange contracts designated as cash flow 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 44 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 hedges of a portion of our foreign exchange-denominated intercompany forecasted inventory sales. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 7F. Financial Instruments : Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities . 
 
 
 
 
 
 (iv) 
 
 Other Unallocated—other unallocated costs, representing overhead expenses associated with our manufacturing and commercial operations that are not directly assessed to an operating segment, as business unit (segment) management does not manage these costs (which include manufacturing variances associated with production). In connection with the StratCO reporting change, in 2017 we reclassified approximately $468 million of costs from IH, approximately $176 million of costs from EH and approximately $70 million of costs from Corporate to Other unallocated costs to conform to the current period presentation, and in 2016, we reclassified approximately $312 million of costs from IH, approximately $167 million of costs from EH and approximately $43 million of costs from Corporate to Other unallocated costs to conform to the current period presentation. 
 For information purposes only, the following tables present reconciliations of our segment operating results to segment operating results including estimated Other costs generally associated with each segment for 2018. While we do not manage our segments or have performance goals under such an allocated manner, we believe that some investors may find this information useful in their analyses. 
 The estimated Other costs generally associated with our operating segments do not purport to reflect the additional amounts that each of our operating segments would have incurred had each segment operated as a standalone company during the period presented. 
 For information purposes only, for 2018 , we estimate that Other costs, as described above, for combined WRD and GPD costs of $3.0 billion , and combined Corporate and Other Unallocated costs of $5.8 billion after excluding (i) net interest-related expense not attributable to an operating segment included in Corporate (approximately $1.0 billion in Other (income)/deductions––net ); and (ii) net income from investments and other assets not attributable to an operating segment included in Corporate (approximately $72 million in Other (income)/deductions––net ), are generally associated with our operating segments, as follows: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Estimated Other Costs Associated with IH (ii) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 Innovative Health Non-GAAP Adjusted (i), (iii) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Estimated WRD/GPD (ii) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Estimated Corporate/Other Unallocated (ii) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Innovative Health with Estimated Other Costs Associated with Innovative Health Non-GAAP Adjusted (ii), (iii) 
 
 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 33,426 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 33,426 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 
 
 4,140 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 142 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,282 
 
 
 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses 
 
 
 
 6,961 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,708 
 
 
 
 
 
 9,669 
 
 
 
 
 Research and development expenses 
 
 
 
 2,866 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,097 
 
 
 
 
 
 938 
 
 
 
 
 
 6,901 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization of intangible assets 
 
 
 
 219 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (4 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 215 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Other (income)/deductions––net 
 
 
 
 (1,017 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (152 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (672 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (1,841 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Income/(loss) from continuing operations before provision/(benefit) for taxes on income 
 
 
 
 20,258 
 
 
 
 
 
 (2,945 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (3,112 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 14,201 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Estimated Other Costs Associated with EH (ii) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 Essential Health Non-GAAP Adjusted (i), (iii) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Estimated WRD/GPD (ii) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Estimated Corporate/Other Unallocated (ii) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Essential Health with Estimated Other Costs Associated with Essential Health Non-GAAP Adjusted (ii), (iii) 
 
 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 20,221 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 20,221 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 
 
 6,056 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 792 
 
 
 
 
 
 6,849 
 
 
 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses 
 
 
 
 2,612 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,952 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,563 
 
 
 
 
 Research and development expenses 
 
 
 
 937 
 
 
 
 
 
 32 
 
 
 
 
 
 92 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,061 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization of intangible assets 
 
 
 
 62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 66 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Other (income)/deductions––net 
 
 
 
 (158 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (192 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (351 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Income/(loss) from continuing operations before provision/(benefit) for taxes on income 
 
 
 
 10,712 
 
 
 
 
 
 (32 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (2,648 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 8,032 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (i) 
 
 Amount represents the revenues and costs managed by each of our operating segments. The expenses generally include only those costs directly attributable to the operating segment. See note (a) above for more information. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (ii) 
 
 Represents costs not assessed to an operating segment, as business unit (segment) management does not manage these costs. For a description of these other costs and business activities, see note (b) above. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 WRD/GPD –– The information provided for WRD and GPD was substantially all derived from our estimates of the costs incurred in connection with the R&D projects associated with each operating segment. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Corporate/Other Unallocated –– The information provided for Corporate and Other Unallocated was derived mainly using proportional allocation methods based on global, regional or country revenues or global, regional or country headcount, as well as certain cost metrics, as appropriate, such as those derived from R&D and manufacturing costs, and, to a lesser extent, specific identification and estimates. Management believes that the allocations of Corporate and Other Unallocated costs are reasonable. 
 The estimated Other costs generally associated with our operating segments do not purport to reflect the additional amounts that each of our operating segments would have incurred had each segment operated as a standalone company during the period presented. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (iii) 
 
 See note (c) below for an explanation of our Non-GAAP Adjusted financial measure. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 See the “Non-GAAP Financial Measure (Adjusted Income)” section of this Financial Review for a definition of these “Adjusted Income” components. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 45 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) 
 
 Includes costs associated with (i) purchase accounting adjustments; (ii) acquisition-related costs; and (iii) certain significant items, which are substantive and/or unusual, and in some cases recurring, items (such as restructuring or legal charges), that are evaluated on an individual basis by management. For additional information about these reconciling items and/or our Non-GAAP adjusted measure of performance, see the “Non-GAAP Financial Measure (Adjusted Income)” section of this Financial Review. 
 
 Innovative Health Operating Segment 
 
 2018 vs. 2017 
 
 IH Revenues increase d $2.0 billion , or 6% , to $33.4 billion , reflecting an operational increase of $1.9 billion , or 6% , and a de minimis impact of foreign exchange of $130 million . 
 The following graph illustrates the components of the increase in IH Revenues : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 LOE generally pertains to period-over-period revenue impacts for products across our portfolios experiencing patent expirations or loss of regulatory exclusivity in certain developed markets. 
 The following provides an analysis of the increase in worldwide IH Revenues : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 IH Revenues , 2017 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 31,422 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Operational growth/(decline): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Continued growth from certain key brands (a) 
 
 
 
 2,815 
 
 
 
 
 Growth from recently launched products, including Eucrisa in the U.S., as well as Besponsa and Bavencio, primarily in the U.S. and developed Europe 
 
 
 
 195 
 
 
 
 
 Growth in our Consumer Healthcare business across all markets 
 
 
 
 107 
 
 
 
 
 Negative impact of the loss of exclusivity of Viagra in the U.S. in December 2017 and the resulting shift in the reporting of U.S. and Canada Viagra revenues from IH to EH in 2018 
 
 
 
 (823 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Lower revenues for Enbrel, primarily in most developed Europe markets due to continued biosimilar competition 
 
 
 
 (350 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Lower revenues from the hemophilia portfolio (BeneFIX and Refacto AF/Xyntha), primarily in developed Europe 
 
 
 
 (100 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Other operational factors, net 
 
 
 
 31 
 
 
 
 
 Operational growth, net 
 
 
 
 1,873 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Favorable impact of foreign exchange 
 
 
 
 130 
 
 
 
 
 IH Revenues increase 
 
 
 
 2,004 
 
 
 
 
 IH Revenues , 2018 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 33,426 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 Certain key brands represent Ibrance, Eliquis, Xeljanz, Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13, Xtandi, Lyrica––IH and Chantix/Champix. See the “Analysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income––Revenues––Selected Product Discussion" section of this Financial Review for product analysis information. 
 Total IH revenues from emerging markets increased $507 million , or 12% , to $4.9 billion in 2018 from $4.4 billion in 2017, reflecting a 16% operational increase . Foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of 5% on total IH revenues from emerging markets. The operational increase in emerging markets was primarily driven by Prevenar 13, Ibrance and Eliquis. 
 Costs and Expenses 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Cost of sales as a percentage of Revenues decrease d 0.6 percentage points, primarily driven by the favorable impact of foreign exchange. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The increase in Cost of sales of 1% was primarily driven by an increase in royalty expenses based on the mix of products sold and an increase in sales volumes for various key products within our product portfolio, partially offset by the favorable impact of foreign exchange. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The increase in Selling, informational and administrative expenses of 3% was primarily driven by additional investment across several of our key products, primarily Xeljanz, Ibrance, Eucrisa and Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13 (pediatric indication), partially offset by a reduction related to Viagra as a result of the reclassification of Viagra IH to EH and lower healthcare reform expenses. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The increase in Research and development expenses of 13% primarily reflects: 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 increased costs associated with the Bavencio program; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 46 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 increased costs associated with our Phase 3 clinical trials related to our JAK1 inhibitor (which was initiated in December 2017) and the C. difficile vaccine program (which was initiated in March 2017) as well as increased spending for our 20 valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine candidate. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The favorable change in Other (income)/deductions––net primarily reflects a $116 million increase in income from collaborations, out-licensing arrangements and sales of compound/product rights, partially offset by a $13 million decrease in dividend income from our investment in ViiV. 
 2017 vs. 2016 
 IH Revenues increase d $2.2 billion , or 8% , to $31.4 billion , reflecting an operational increase of $2.3 billion , or 8% , partially offset by a de minimis impact of foreign exchange of $80 million . 
 The following graph illustrates the components of the increase in IH Revenues : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 LOE generally pertains to period-over-period revenue impacts for products across our portfolios experiencing patent expirations or loss of regulatory exclusivity in certain developed markets. 
 The following provides an analysis of the increase in IH Revenues : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 IH Revenues, 2016 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 29,197 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Operational growth/(decline): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Continued growth from key brands (a) 
 
 
 
 1,608 
 
 
 
 
 Ibrance global growth: U.S. revenues increased primarily due to continued strong uptake in the metastatic breast cancer setting. International revenues increased operationally, but were negatively impacted by a one-time price adjustment to 2017 revenues related to finalizing reimbursement agreements in certain developed Europe markets. 
 
 
 
 993 
 
 
 
 
 Increase in Xtandi alliance revenues in the U.S. (September 2016 acquisition of Medivation) 
 
 
 
 450 
 
 
 
 
 Lower revenues for Enbrel primarily in developed Europe markets due to continued biosimilar competition 
 
 
 
 (448 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Lower revenues for Viagra in the U.S. due to generic competition that began in December 2017 
 
 
 
 (359 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Decline in Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13 revenues. U.S. revenues decreased primarily due to the expected decline in revenues for the adult indication in the U.S. due to a high initial capture rate of the eligible population following its successful fourth-quarter 2014 launch, which resulted in a smaller remaining “catch up” opportunity compared to 2016, partially offset by growth from the pediatric indication. International revenues increased primarily due to the favorable overall impact of timing and increased volume associated with government purchases in certain emerging markets for the pediatric indication compared with prior year, as well as from the inclusion of Prevenar 13 in additional national immunization programs in certain emerging markets for the adult and pediatric indications in the fourth of quarter 2017. 
 
 
 
 (108 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Other operational factors, net 
 
 
 
 169 
 
 
 
 
 Operational growth, net 
 
 
 
 2,305 
 
 
 
 
 Unfavorable impact of foreign exchange 
 
 
 
 (80 
 
 ) 
 
 
 IH Revenues increase 
 
 
 
 2,225 
 
 
 
 
 IH Revenues, 2017 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 31,422 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 Key brands represent Eliquis (globally), as well as Xeljanz and Lyrica –– IH (both primarily in the U.S.). 
 Total IH revenues from emerging markets increased $656 million, or 18%, to $4.4 billion in 2017 from $3.7 billion in 2016, reflecting an 18% operational increase. Foreign exchange had a de minimis impact on total IH revenues from emerging markets. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 47 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Costs and Expenses 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Cost of sales as a percentage of Revenues decrease d 0.9 percentage points primarily driven by a favorable change in product mix, including an increase in alliance revenues, which have no associated cost of sales, partially offset by an increase in royalty expense, mostly related to Ibrance. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The increase in Cost of sales of 1% was primarily driven by an increase in royalty expense, mostly related to Ibrance, partially offset by a favorable change in product mix. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The decrease in Selling, informational and administrative expenses of 3% was primarily driven by the non-recurrence of an allowance for doubtful trade accounts receivable, resulting from unfavorable developments with a distributor that was recorded in the first quarter 2016, lower spending for certain products, primarily Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13 and Viagra (which lost exclusivity in the U.S. in December 2017), partially offset by additional investment across several of our key products, primarily Eucrisa, Ibrance and Xeljanz. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The decrease in Research and development expenses of 13% primarily reflects: 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 the discontinuation of the global clinical development program for bococizumab in the fourth quarter of 2016 and the non-recurrence of its associated close-out costs, 
 partially offset by increased costs associated with: 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 our oncology programs, including clinical trial spend on Medivation assets; 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 our C. difficile vaccine program, which initiated a Phase 3 clinical study in March 2017; 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 our tanezumab development program; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 an expense of $28 million, representing IH’s portion of the $75 million expense resulting from our May 2017 agreement with Sangamo to develop and commercialize gene therapy programs for Hemophilia A. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The unfavorable change in Other (income)/deductions––net primarily reflects: 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 lower royalty income for Enbrel of $470 million, resulting from the expiration on October 31, 2016 of the 36-month royalty period under the collaboration agreement for Enbrel in the U.S. and Canada (the collaboration period under the agreement expired on October 31, 2013); and 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 a $51 million decrease in Prezista royalties, 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 a $256 million increase in dividend income from our investment in ViiV; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 a $176 million increase in Xtandi royalty income. 
 Essential Health Operating Segment 
 2018 vs. 2017 
 EH Revenues decrease d $903 million, or 4% to $20.2 billion , reflecting an operational decrease of $1.1 billion, or 5% , partially offset by the favorable impact of foreign exchange of $180 million, or 1%. 
 The following graph illustrates the components of the decrease in EH Revenues : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 LOE generally pertains to period-over-period revenue impacts for products across our portfolios experiencing patent expirations or loss of regulatory exclusivity in certain developed markets. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 48 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following provides an analysis of the decrease in worldwide EH Revenues : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 EH Revenues , 2017 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 21,124 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Operational growth/(decline): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Decline from the Peri-LOE Products portfolio, driven by lower revenues in developed markets (excluding Viagra EH), primarily due to expected declines in Lyrica in developed Europe and Celebrex and Pristiq in the U.S. due to generic competition 
 
 
 
 (558 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Impact from the SIP portfolio, driven by lower revenues in developed markets, primarily due to increased competition across the portfolio and continued legacy Hospira product shortages in the U.S. 
 
 
 
 (504 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Impact from the LEP portfolio, driven by lower revenues in developed markets, primarily as a result of industry-wide pricing challenges in the U.S. and generic competition 
 
 
 
 (436 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Impact on financial results for the sale of HIS in February 2017. 2018 does not reflect any contribution from HIS global operations, compared to approximately one month of HIS domestic operations and approximately two months of HIS international operations in 2017 
 
 
 
 (97 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Positive impact of Viagra, mostly driven by the shift in the reporting of U.S. and Canada Viagra revenues from IH to EH in 2018 (due to the loss of exclusivity of Viagra in the U.S. in December 2017), partially offset by lower revenues in developed Europe markets (previously reported in EH) 
 
 
 
 251 
 
 
 
 
 Growth from Biosimilars, primarily from Inflectra in certain channels in the U.S. and developed Europe markets 
 
 
 
 217 
 
 
 
 
 Impact from CentreOne primarily in emerging markets 
 
 
 
 45 
 
 
 
 
 Operational decline, net 
 
 
 
 (1,082 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Favorable impact of foreign exchange 
 
 
 
 180 
 
 
 
 
 EH Revenues decrease 
 
 
 
 (903 
 
 ) 
 
 
 EH Revenues , 2018 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 20,221 
 
 
 Total EH revenues from emerging markets increased $745 million, or 11% , to $7.8 billion in 2018 from $7.0 billion in 2017, primarily driven by 11% operational growth from the LEP portfolio and 13% operational growth from the SIP portfolio, partially offset by a 2% operational decline from the Peri-LOE Products portfolio. Foreign exchange had a de minimis impact on total EH revenues from emerging markets. 
 Costs and Expenses 
 
 The changes in EH expenses below reflect, among other things, the favorable impact of the February 2017 sale of HIS. The operating results of HIS are included in EH’s operating results through February 2, 2017 and, therefore, operating results for EH for 2017 include approximately one month of HIS domestic operations and approximately two months of HIS international operations. Operating results for EH for 2018 do not reflect any contribution from HIS global operations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Cost of sales as a percentage of Revenues increase d 1.8 percentage points, primarily due to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 higher sales volume of Inflectra in the U.S. and developed Europe, and higher Pfizer CentreOne sales volumes, both of which carry higher product costs; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 lower sales volumes and margins as a result of product losses of exclusivity and generic competition in developed markets, 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 lower sales volumes in the SIP portfolio, which carries a higher cost to produce, in developed markets, primarily due to increased competition across the SIP portfolio and continued legacy Hospira product shortages in the U.S.; 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 the favorable impact of foreign exchange; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 the non-recurrence of charges related to a product recall that occurred in 2017. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The increase in Cost of sales of 2% was primarily due to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 higher sales volumes of Inflectra in the U.S. and developed Europe, and higher Pfizer CentreOne sales volumes, both of which carry higher product costs; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 lower sales volumes in the SIP portfolio, which carries a higher cost to produce, in developed markets, primarily due to increased competition across the SIP portfolio and continued legacy Hospira product shortages in the U.S., 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 lower sales volumes as a result of product losses of exclusivity and generic competition in developed markets; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 the non-recurrence of charges related to a product recall that occurred in 2017. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses decrease d 10% mainly due to lower advertising, promotional and field force expenses, reflecting the benefits of cost-reduction and productivity initiatives, and lower general and administrative expenses , partially offset by additional investments in China . 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Research and development expenses decrease d 11% , primarily due to decreased spending for biosimilars as several programs have reached completion. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The unfavorable change in Other (income)/deductions––net primarily reflects the non-recurrence of income from resolution of a contract disagreement, the non-recurrence of a gain on the redemption of an acquired bond in 2017 and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange, partially offset by an increase in income from collaborations, out-licensing arrangements and sales of compound/product rights. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 49 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 vs. 2016 
 EH Revenues decrease d $2.5 billion , or 11% , to $21.1 billion , reflecting an operational decrease of $2.3 billion , or 10%, and a 1% unfavorable impact from foreign exchange. 
 The following graph illustrates the components of the decrease in EH Revenues : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 LOE generally pertains to period-over-period revenue impacts for products across our portfolios experiencing patent expirations or loss of regulatory exclusivity in certain developed markets. 
 The following provides an analysis of the decrease in EH Revenues : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 EH Revenues , 2016 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 23,627 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Disposition: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Approximately one month of HIS domestic operations and approximately two months of HIS international operations in 2017, compared to twelve months of HIS global operations in 2016 (February 2017 sale) 
 
 
 
 (1,062 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Other Operational growth/(decline): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Decline from Peri-LOE Products, primarily due to expected declines in Pristiq in the U.S. as well as Lyrica and Vfend (both primarily in developed Europe markets) 
 
 
 
 (957 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Decline from the Sterile Injectable Pharmaceuticals portfolio, primarily due to legacy Hospira product shortages in the U.S. 
 
 
 
 (315 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Decline in the Legacy Established Products portfolio primarily due to generic competition in developed markets 
 
 
 
 (188 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Growth from Biosimilars, primarily from Inflectra in the U.S. and developed Europe markets 
 
 
 
 209 
 
 
 
 
 Other operational factors, net 
 
 
 
 (13 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Operational decline, net 
 
 
 
 (2,325 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Unfavorable impact of foreign exchange 
 
 
 
 (178 
 
 ) 
 
 
 EH Revenues decrease 
 
 
 
 (2,503 
 
 ) 
 
 
 EH Revenues, 2017 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 21,124 
 
 
 Total EH revenues from emerging markets increased $323 million, or 5%, to $7.0 billion in 2017 from $6.7 billion in 2016, reflecting 7% operational growth, primarily driven by 6% operational growth from the Legacy Established Products portfolio and 17% operational growth from the Sterile Injectable Pharmaceuticals portfolio. Foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of 2%. Excluding HIS in both periods, EH revenues in emerging markets grew 8% operationally. 
 Costs and Expenses 
 The changes in EH expenses below reflect, among other things, the favorable impact of the February 2017 sale of HIS. The operating results of HIS are included in EH’s operating results through February 2, 2017 and, therefore, operating results for EH for 2017 include approximately one month of HIS domestic operations and approximately two months of HIS international operations, while operating results for EH for 2016 reflect 12 months of HIS global operations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Cost of sales as a percentage of Revenues increase d 1.6 percentage points primarily due to cost increases reflecting the shift to EH of certain legacy Hospira costs that were previously unallocated to EH as a result of harmonizing the Hospira cost policy, and the impact of product losses of exclusivity, partially offset by the favorable impact of the sale of HIS, which had a higher cost of sales than the other EH products, and the favorable impact of foreign exchange. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The decrease in Cost of sales of 5% primarily reflects: 
 ◦ the favorable impact of the sale of HIS, which had a higher cost of sales than the other EH products; 
 ◦ the favorable impact of foreign exchange; 
 ◦ a net decrease in royalty expense and, to a lesser extent, 
 ◦ lower volumes driven by, among other things, the SIP portfolio, primarily due to legacy Hospira product shortages in the U.S., 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 50 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 cost increases reflecting the shift to EH of certain legacy Hospira costs that were previously unallocated to EH as a result of harmonizing the Hospira cost policy. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses decrease d 12% , primarily due to the favorable impact of the sale of HIS, lower advertising, promotional, and field force expenses, reflecting the benefits of cost-reduction and productivity initiatives, as well as lower expenses associated with products that recently lost marketing exclusivity, partially offset by increased spending for biosimilars, primarily related to the U.S. launch of Inflectra. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Research and development expenses decrease d 15% primarily due to decreased spending for biosimilars, the close-out of certain postmarketing clinical trials and the favorable impact of the sale of HIS. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The favorable change in Other (income)/deductions––net primarily reflects the favorable impact of foreign exchange, a gain on the redemption of an acquired bond and an increase in Inflectra royalty income, partially offset by the non-recurrence of a resolution of a contract disagreement in the first quarter of 2016. 
 
 ANALYSIS OF THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
 
 Changes in the components of Accumulated other comprehensive loss reflect the following: 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Foreign currency translation adjustments, net, primarily reflects the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the euro, U.K. pound and Chinese renminbi. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Unrealized holding gains/(losses) on derivative financial instruments, net and Unrealized holding gains/(losses) on available-for-sale securities, net, reflects the impact of fair value re-measurements and the reclassification of amounts into income. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 1B. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies : Adoption of New Accounting Standards in 2018 and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 7. Financial Instruments. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Benefit plans: actuarial losses, net, primarily reflects (i) an increase due to the cumulative effect adjustment as of January 1, 2018 resulting from the adoption of a new accounting standard related to certain tax effects from AOCI; (ii) a decrease in actual returns on plan assets; (iii) an increase in our discount rate assumptions; (iv) the amortization of changes in the pension benefit obligation previously recognized in Other comprehensive income ; and (v) the favorable impact of foreign exchange. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 1B. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies: Adoption of New Accounting Standards in 2018 and Note 11. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans and Defined Contribution Plans . 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Tax provision/(benefit) on other comprehensive income/(loss), reflect the reclassification of the stranded tax amounts related to the TCJA from AOCI to Retained earnings, which was recorded in the first quarter of 2018. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 1B. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies––Adoption of New Accounting Standards and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 5E. Tax Matters : Tax Provision/(Benefit) on Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss). 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Foreign currency translation adjustments, net, primarily reflects the weakening of the U.S. dollar against the euro, U.K. pound and the Canadian dollar, as well as the reclassification of amounts related to (i) the agreement to sell our 40% ownership investment in Teuto and (ii) the sale of our 49% equity share in Hisun Pfizer. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 2F. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Arrangements, Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements, Equity-Method Investments and Privately Held Investment: Equity-Method Investments . 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Unrealized holding gains/(losses) on derivative financial instruments, net and Unrealized holding gains/(losses) on available-for-sale securities, net, reflect the impact of fair value re-measurements and the reclassification of amounts into net income. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 7. Financial Instruments 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Benefit plans: actuarial losses, net, primarily reflects (i) an increase in the actuarial losses due to a decrease in our discount rate assumptions; (ii) an increase in actual returns on plan assets; (iii) the amortization of changes in the pension benefit obligation previously recognized in Other comprehensive income ; and (iv) the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 11. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans and Defined Contribution Plans. 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Foreign currency translation adjustments, net, primarily reflects the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the U.K. pound, Chinese renminbi, Mexican peso, and Argentine peso, partially offset by the weakening of the U.S. dollar against the Australian dollar and Japanese yen. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Unrealized holding gains/(losses) on derivative financial instruments, net and Unrealized holding gains/(losses) on available-for-sale securities, net, reflects the impact of fair value re-measurements and the reclassification of amounts into net income. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 7. Financial Instruments . 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Benefit plans: actuarial losses, net, reflects the actuarial losses related primarily to a decrease in the discount rate, partially offset by (i) the amortization of changes in the pension benefit obligation previously recognized in Other comprehensive income , and (ii) higher actual return on plan assets as compared to the expected return on plan assets. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 11. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans and Defined Contribution Plans and the “Significant Accounting Policies and Application of Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions––Benefit Plans” section of this Financial Review. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 51 
 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ANALYSIS OF THE CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
 
 For information about certain of our financial assets and liabilities, including Cash and cash equivalents, Short-term investments, Long-term investments, Short-term borrowings, including current portion of long-term debt , and Long-term debt , see the “Analysis of the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows” and the “Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources: Selected Measures of Liquidity and Capital Resources” sections of this Financial Review and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 7. Financial Instruments . 
 
 For information about events and circumstances impacting our tax-related accounts, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 5. Tax Matters . 
 For a description of changes in Total Equity , see the consolidated statements of equity. 
 For information related to changes in Accumulated other comprehensive loss , see the “Analysis of the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income” section of this Financial Review and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 6. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss, Excluding Noncontrolling Interests . 
 The changes in our asset and liability accounts as of December 31, 2018 , compared to December 31, 2017 , generally reflect, among other things, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, the impact of the adoption of new accounting standards in the first quarter of 2018 and the reclassification to assets and liabilities held for sale in connection with our pending consumer business joint venture with GSK . The following explanations exclude the impacts of foreign exchange, the adoption of new accounting standards in the first quarter of 2018 and the pending consumer healthcare business joint venture with GSK (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 1B. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies : Adoption of New Accounting Standards in 2018 and Note 2C. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Arrangements, Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements, Equity-Method Investments and Privately Held Investment : Asset and Liabilities Held for Sale for additional information). 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Trade accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful accounts, the change reflects the timing of sales and collections in the normal course of business. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Inventories, the change reflects increases for certain products to meet targeted levels in the normal course of business, primarily for inventory build for supply recovery, new product launches and the movement of products within our manufacturing network. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Other current assets, the change reflects an increase in receivables associated with derivative financial instruments, partially offset by the receipt of a milestone payment related to the first marketing authorization for ertugliflozin (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 2E. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Arrangements, Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements, Equity-Method Investments and Privately Held Investment: Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements ). 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For PP&E, the change primarily reflects capital additions in the normal course of business, partially offset by depreciation during the period and reductions due to asset impairments largely associated with cost reduction initiatives not associated with acquisitions (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 3 . Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives ). 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Identifiable intangible assets, less accumulated amortization , the change primarily reflects amortization for the period and intangible asset impairment charges (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 4. Other (Income)/Deductions-Net ), partially offset by an intangible asset recorded in connection with the EU approval of Mylotarg (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 10A. Identifiable Intangible Assets and Goodwill : Identifiable Intangible Assets ). 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Trade accounts payable, the change reflects the timing of purchases and payments in the normal course of business. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Other current liabilities , the change reflects an increase in liabilities associated with: 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 payments and accruals in the normal course of business; 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 reclassifications from noncurrent liabilities; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 accruals for restructuring activities associated with our Organizing for Growth initiative (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 3. Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost Reduction/Productivity Initiatives) ; 
 partially offset by decreases related to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 payments for contingent consideration obligations; 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 payments to settle certain legal and product liability obligations; 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 payables related to derivative financial instruments; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 payments for the current portion of obligations recorded in connection with the U.S. approval of Bosulif, and the EU and U.S. approvals of Besponsa (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 7E. Financial Instruments : Other Noncurrent Liabilities ) . 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Pension benefit obligations, net , the decrease primarily reflects the $500 million voluntary pension contribution we made to the U.S. Pfizer Consolidated Pension Plan in February 2018 and the impact of an increase in the discount rate used in the measurement of plan obligations, partially offset by a decrease in actual returns on plan assets. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Other noncurrent liabilities , the change reflects an increase in liabilities associated with: 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 an increase in payables, associated with derivative financial instruments; 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 an increase in liabilities associated with the sale-leaseback of our New York headquarters (see the “Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources— Selected Measures of Liquidity and Capital Resources —Contractual Obligations” section of this Financial Review for additional information); and 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 a change in the fair value of contingent consideration (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 4 . Other (Income)/Deductions—Net ), 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 52 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 reclassifications to current liabilities. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Treasury stock, the change reflects open market share repurchases of $8.2 billion in 2018, as well as $4.0 billion paid to Citibank in March 2018 pursuant to the terms of an accelerated share repurchase agreement. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 12A. Equity: Common Stock for additional information. 
 
 ANALYSIS OF THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 18/17 
 
 
 
 
 
 17/16 
 
 
 
 
 Cash provided by/(used in): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Operating activities 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 15,827 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 16,802 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 16,192 
 
 
 
 
 
 (6 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 4 
 
 
 
 
 Investing activities 
 
 
 
 4,525 
 
 
 
 
 
 (4,740 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (7,791 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 (39 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Financing activities 
 
 
 
 (20,441 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (13,350 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (9,228 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 53 
 
 
 
 
 
 45 
 
 
 
 
 Effect of exchange-rate changes on cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash and cash equivalents 
 
 
 
 (116 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 53 
 
 
 
 
 
 (215 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 Net decrease in Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash and cash equivalents 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (205 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (1,235 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (1,041 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (83 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 Indicates calculation not meaningful or result is equal to or greater than 100%. 
 
 In the consolidated statements of cash flows, the line ITEM, Other changes in assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions and divestitures , is presented excluding the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, as these changes do not reflect actual cash inflows or outflows, and excluding any other significant non-cash movements. Accordingly, the amounts shown will not necessarily agree with the changes in the assets and liabilities that are presented in our consolidated balance sheets. 
 
 Operating Activities 
 
 2018 v. 2017 
 
 Our net cash provided by operating activities was $15.8 billion in 2018 , compared to $16.8 billion in 2017 . The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities reflects a decrease in net cash generated from net income. The net cash generated reflects the timing of receipts from customers and payments to vendors in the ordinary course of business. 
 In 2018 , the change in the line ITEM Other adjustments, net primarily reflects, among other items: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 non-recurrence of a non-cash net loss on early retirement of debt under an exchange offer in 2017; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 unrealized net gains on equity securities resulting from the adoption of a new accounting standard on January 1, 2018 related to financial assets and liabilities (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 1B. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies : Adoption of New Accounting Standards in 2018 ); 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 a decrease in debt extinguishment costs in 2018 related to early retirement of debt under an exchange offer in 2017, which have been reclassified from operating to financing activities in 2018 and 2017 in accordance with our implementation of a new accounting standard on January 1, 2018 related to the classification of debt prepayment and extinguishment costs (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 1B. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies : Adoption of New Accounting Standards in 2018 ); 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 a non-cash gain associated with our transaction with Bain Capital to create a new biopharmaceutical company to continue development of a portfolio of clinical and preclinical stage neuroscience assets (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 2B. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Arrangements, Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements, Equity-Method Investments and Privately Held Investment : Divestitures ); and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 a non-cash gain on the contribution of Pfizer’s allogeneic CAR T developmental program assets, in connection with our contribution agreement with Allogene (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 2B. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Arrangements, Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements, Equity-Method Investments and Privately Held Investment : Divestitures ), 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 decreases in net realized gains on sales of investments in debt and equity securities; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 net losses on foreign exchange contracts hedging a portion of our forecasted intercompany inventory sales (that fixes the cost of inventory later sold to customers); and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 a decrease in gains on the sale of property, plant and equipment. 
 In 2018 and 2017 , the line ITEM Other changes in assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions and divestitures, primarily reflects changes, in the normal course of business, in trade accounts receivable, inventories, other current assets, other noncurrent assets, trade accounts payable, accrued compensation and other current and noncurrent liabilities. 
 For additional information about changes in other assets and liabilities account balances, see the “Analysis of the Consolidated Balance Sheets” in this Financial Review. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 53 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 v. 2016 
 
 Our net cash provided by operating activities was $16.8 billion in 2017 , compared to $16.2 billion in 2016 . The increase in net cash provided by operating activities reflects the timing of receipts from customers and payments to vendors in the ordinary course of business, partially offset by an increase in benefit plan contributions. In 2017 , the change in the line ITEM Other adjustments, net primarily reflects, among other items: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 a decrease in the provision for bad debt expense; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 an increase in dividends from our investment in ViiV reclassified from operating to investing activities; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 an increase in gains from sales of available-for-sale securities; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 an increase in gains on the sale of property, plant and equipment, 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 a non-cash net loss on early retirement of debt under an exchange offer. 
 In 2017 and 2016 , the line ITEM Other changes in assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions and divestitures, primarily reflects changes, in the normal course of business, in trade accounts receivable, inventories, other current assets, other noncurrent assets, trade accounts payable, accrued compensation and other current and noncurrent liabilities. For 2016 , this line ITEM also includes the adjustments necessary to reflect the payments of certain legal claims accrued in prior periods, including for Protonix-related matters. 
 For additional information about changes in other assets and liabilities account balances, see the “Analysis of the Consolidated Balance Sheets” in this Financial Review. 
 
 Investing Activities 
 
 2018 v. 2017 
 
 Our net cash provided by investing activities was $4.5 billion in 2018 , compared to net cash used in investing activities of $4.7 billion in 2017 . The change in net cash used in investing activities was primarily attributable to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 an increase in net proceeds generated from the sale of investments of $8.6 billion in 2018 for cash needs; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 a decrease in cash used for acquisitions, net of cash acquired of $1.0 billion due to the acquisition of the development and commercialization rights to AstraZeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business and substantially all of the remaining consideration for the Medivation acquisition in 2017 (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 2A. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Arrangements, Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements, Equity-Method Investments and Privately Held Investment: Acquisitions ). 
 2017 v. 2016 
 
 Our net cash used in investing activities was $4.7 billion in 2017 , compared to net cash used in investing activities of $7.8 billion in 2016 . The change in net cash used in investing activities was primarily attributable to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 a decrease in cash used for acquisitions — cash paid of $1.0 billion, net of cash acquired, primarily for the acquisition of AstraZeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business in 2017 and substantially all of the remaining consideration for the Medivation acquisition, compared to cash paid of $18.4 billion , net of cash acquired, primarily for the acquisitions of Medivation, Bamboo and Anacor in 2016 (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 2A. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Arrangements, Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements, Equity-Method Investments and Privately Held Investment: Acquisitions ); and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 an increase in Other investing activities, net, including dividends received from our investment in ViiV, 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 lower net proceeds generated from the sale of investments of $14.7 billion in 2017 for cash needs. 
 
 Financing Activities 
 
 2018 v. 2017 
 Our net cash used in financing activities was $20.4 billion in 2018 , compared to $13.3 billion in 2017 . The increase in net cash used in financing activities was primarily attributable to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 $2.3 billion less proceeds raised from short-term borrowings in 2018 , compared to 2017 ; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 higher purchases of common stock of $7.2 billion , 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 lower repayments on long-term debt of $2.6 billion . 
 2017 v. 2016 
 Our net cash used in financing activities was $13.3 billion in 2017 , compared to $9.2 billion in 2016 . The increase in net cash used in financing activities was primarily attributable to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the issuance of long-term debt of $5.3 billion in 2017 , compared to $11.0 billion in 2016 (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 7D. Financial Instruments: Long-Term Debt ); and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 $7.7 billion cash dividends paid in 2017 , compared to $7.3 billion in the same period in 2016 , 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 54 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 lower repayments on long-term debt of $1.5 billion , compared to 2016 ; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 lower net repayments on short-term borrowings in 2017 of $619 million , compared to 2016 . 
 
 ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 
 
 We rely largely on operating cash flows, short-term investments, short-term commercial paper borrowings and long-term debt to provide for our liquidity requirements. We continue our efforts to improve cash inflows through working capital efficiencies. We target specific areas of focus including accounts receivable, inventories, accounts payable, and other working capital, which allows us to optimize our operating cash flows. Due to our significant operating cash flows as well as our financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we believe that we have, and will maintain, the ability to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future, which include: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the working capital requirements of our operations, including our R&D activities; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 investments in our business; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 dividend payments and potential increases in the dividend rate; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 share repurchases; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the cash requirements associated with our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 paying down outstanding debt; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 contributions to our pension and postretirement plans; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 business-development activities. 
 Our long-term debt is rated high-quality by both S&P and Moody’s. See the “Credit Ratings” section below. As market conditions change, we continue to monitor our liquidity position. We have taken and will continue to take a conservative approach to our financial investments. Both short-term and long-term investments consist primarily of high-quality, highly liquid, well-diversified available-for-sale debt securities. 
 
 Selected Measures of Liquidity and Capital Resources 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following table provides certain relevant measures of our liquidity and capital resources: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 As of December 31, 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS, EXCEPT RATIOS AND PER COMMON SHARE DATA) 
 
 
 
 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 Selected financial assets (a) : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Cash and cash equivalents 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,139 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,342 
 
 
 
 
 Short-term investments 
 
 
 
 17,694 
 
 
 
 
 
 18,650 
 
 
 
 
 Long-term investments 
 
 
 
 2,767 
 
 
 
 
 
 7,015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 21,600 
 
 
 
 
 
 27,007 
 
 
 
 
 Debt: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Short-term borrowings, including current portion of long-term debt 
 
 
 
 8,831 
 
 
 
 
 
 9,953 
 
 
 
 
 Long-term debt 
 
 
 
 32,909 
 
 
 
 
 
 33,538 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 41,740 
 
 
 
 
 
 43,491 
 
 
 
 
 Selected net financial liabilities (b) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (20,140 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (16,484 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Working capital (c) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 18,068 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 10,714 
 
 
 
 
 Ratio of current assets to current liabilities 
 
 
 
 1.57:1 
 
 
 
 
 
 1.35:1 
 
 
 
 
 Total Pfizer Inc. shareholders’ equity per common share (d) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 11.09 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 11.93 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 7. Financial Instruments for a description of certain assets held and for a description of credit risk related to our financial instruments held. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 The increase in selected net financial liabilities was primarily driven by the decrease in long-term investments used for cash needs, partially offset by the repayment of debt. We retain a strong financial liquidity position as a result of our net cash provided by operating activities, our high-quality financial asset portfolio and access to capital markets. For additional information, see the “Credit Ratings” section of this Financial Review. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 The increase in working capital was primarily due to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the reclassification to assets and liabilities held for sale in connection with our pending consumer business joint venture with GSK (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 2 C. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Arrangements, Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements, Equity-Method Investments and Privately Held Investment : Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale ) ; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 a decrease in short-term borrowings as a result of repayments of commercial paper; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 an increase in inventory related to increases for certain products to meet targeted levels in the normal course of business, primarily for inventory build for supply recovery, new product launches and the movement of products within our manufacturing network; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the timing of accruals, cash receipts and payments in the ordinary course of business, 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 a decrease in S hort-term investments mainly driven by the financing requirements for share repurchase activities, dividend payments, capital expenditures and debt repayment, partially offset by operating cash flow generation, cash from employee stock option exercises and reclassification of long-term to short-term investments; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 an increase in income taxes payable primarily related to the reclassification of the first federal installment of the repatriation tax previously recorded in noncurrent liabilities and the timing of accruals in certain major markets in the ordinary course of business; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the net impact of foreign currency exchange. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) 
 
 Represents total Pfizer Inc. shareholders’ equity divided by the actual number of common shares outstanding (which excludes treasury stock). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 55 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 In September 2018, we completed a public offering of $5.0 billion aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements––Note 7D. Financial Instruments : Long-Term Debt ) . 
 
 In December 2017, we exchanged approximately £833 million principal amount of senior unsecured notes due 2038 with an interest rate of 6.50% for £ 1.376 billion principal amount of senior unsecured notes due 2043 with an interest rate of 2.735% (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 7D. Financial Instruments: Long-Term Debt ). 
 
 In March 2017, we completed a public offering of $1.065 billion principal amount of senior unsecured notes due 2047 with an interest rate of 4.20% , and on March 6, 2017, we completed a public offering of € 4.0 billion principal amount of senior unsecured notes with a weighted-average effective interest rate of 0.23% (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 7D. Financial Instruments: Long-Term Debt ). 
 
 In November 2016, we completed a public offering of $6.0 billion aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes with a weighted-average effective interest rate of 3.10% . 
 
 In June 2016, we completed a public offering of $5.0 billion aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes with a weighted-average effective interest rate of 2.09% . 
 
 For additional information about the sources and uses of our funds, see the “Analysis of the Consolidated Balance Sheets ” and “ Analysis of the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows ” sections of this Financial Review. 
 
 Domestic and International Selected Financial Assets 
 
 Many of our operations are conducted outside the U.S., and significant portions of our selected financial assets are held internationally. The amount of funds held in U.S. tax jurisdictions can fluctuate due to the timing of receipts and payments in the ordinary course of business and due to other reasons, such as business-development activities. As part of our ongoing liquidity assessments, we regularly monitor the mix of domestic and international cash flows (both inflows and outflows). The changes in tax law under the TCJA, which includes transitioning U.S. international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a territorial tax system, will also allow us to more easily access our selected financial assets globally. As a result of the enactment of the TCJA, in 2018 we repatriated the majority of our cash we held internationally as of year-end 2017. 
 
 Credit Ratings 
 
 Two major corporate debt-rating organizations, Moody’s and S&P, assign ratings to our short-term and long-term debt. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and the rating is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating organization. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following table provides the current ratings assigned by these rating agencies to our commercial paper and senior unsecured long-term debt: 
 
 
 NAME OF RATING AGENCY 
 
 
 
 Pfizer 
 Commercial Paper 
 
 
 
 Pfizer 
 Long-Term Debt 
 
 
 
 Outlook 
 
 
 
 Date of Last Rating Change 
 
 
 
 
 Rating 
 
 
 
 Rating 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Moody’s 
 
 
 
 P-1 
 
 
 
 A1 
 
 
 
 Stable 
 
 
 
 October 2009 
 
 
 S&P 
 
 
 
 A-1+ 
 
 
 
 AA 
 
 
 
 Stable 
 
 
 
 October 2009 
 
 Debt Capacity––Lines of Credit 
 
 We have available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements with a group of banks and other financial intermediaries. We typically maintain cash and cash equivalent balances and short-term investments in excess of our commercial paper and other short-term borrowings. As of December 31, 2018, we had access to a $7.0 billion U.S. revolving credit facility expiring in 2023, which may be used to support our commercial paper borrowings. In addition to the U.S. revolving credit facility, our lenders have provided us an additional $553 million lines of credit, of which $502 million expire within one year. Of these total lines of credit, $7.5 billion were unused as of December 31, 2018. 
 
 LIBOR 
 
 From time to time, we issue variable rate debt based on LIBOR, or undertake interest rate swaps that contain a variable element based on LIBOR. Banks currently reporting information used to set LIBOR will stop doing so after 2021. Various parties, including government agencies, are seeking to identify an alternative rate to replace LIBOR. We are monitoring their efforts, and we will likely amend contracts to accommodate any replacement rate where it is not already provided. 
 
 Global Economic Conditions––General 
 
 The global economic environment has not had, nor do we anticipate it will have, a material impact on our liquidity or capital resources. Due to our significant operating cash flows, financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we continue to believe that we have, and will maintain, the ability to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future. We monitor our liquidity position continuously in the face of evolving economic conditions. For additional information see the “Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook––Our Operating Environment––The Global Economic Environment” section in this Financial Review. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 56 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Global Economic Conditions––Venezuela Operations 
 
 Our Venezuela operations continue to operate with the U.S. dollar as the functional currency due to the hyperinflationary status of the Venezuelan economy. 
 
 We used the Venezuelan bolivar soberano rate of 85.87 as our best estimate to revalue our Venezuelan bolivar denominated net monetary assets. The current DICOM rate is about 3,298.64. Future actions by the Venezuelan government in response to economic uncertainties could impact the recoverability of our investment in Venezuela, which could result in an impairment charge and, under extreme circumstances, could impact our ability to continue to operate in the country in the same manner as we have historically. We have in Venezuela a few net monetary assets and $39 million of non-monetary assets, and $11 million of deferred foreign exchange losses reported in the balance sheet in Accumulated other comprehensive loss––Foreign currency translation adjustments at November 30, 2018 , our international quarter-end. 
 
 Global Economic Conditions––Argentina Operations 
 
 Our Argentina operations function in a hyperinflationary economy. The impact to Pfizer is not considered material. 
 Contractual Obligations 
 
 Payments due under contractual obligations as of December 31, 2018 , mature as follows: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Years 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 
 
 2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 2020-2021 
 
 
 
 
 
 2022-2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 Thereafter 
 
 
 
 
 Long-term debt, including current portion (a) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 37,684 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 4,776 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 5,935 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 4,067 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 22,907 
 
 
 
 
 Interest payments on long-term debt obligations (b) 
 
 
 
 20,680 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,443 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,518 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,330 
 
 
 
 
 
 14,389 
 
 
 
 
 Other long-term liabilities (c) 
 
 
 
 2,798 
 
 
 
 
 
 414 
 
 
 
 
 
 611 
 
 
 
 
 
 549 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,224 
 
 
 
 
 Operating leases (d) 
 
 
 
 3,317 
 
 
 
 
 
 300 
 
 
 
 
 
 462 
 
 
 
 
 
 515 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,040 
 
 
 
 
 Purchase obligations and other (e) 
 
 
 
 3,722 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,322 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,294 
 
 
 
 
 
 337 
 
 
 
 
 
 769 
 
 
 
 
 Other taxes payable — deemed repatriated accumulated post-1986 earnings of foreign subsidiaries (f) 
 
 
 
 11,000 
 
 
 
 
 
 800 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,775 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,775 
 
 
 
 
 
 6,650 
 
 
 
 
 Uncertain tax positions (g) 
 
 
 
 19 
 
 
 
 
 
 19 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 Long-term debt consists of senior unsecured notes (including fixed and floating rate, foreign currency denominated, and other notes), carried at historical proceeds, as adjusted, and capital lease obligations (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 7. Financial Instruments ). Commitments under capital leases are not significant. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 Our calculations of expected interest payments incorporate only current period assumptions for interest rates, foreign currency translation rates and hedging strategies (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 7. Financial Instruments ), and assume that interest is accrued through the maturity date or expiration of the related instrument. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 Includes expected payments relating to our unfunded U.S. supplemental (non-qualified) pension plans, postretirement plans and deferred compensation plans. Excludes amounts relating to our U.S. qualified pension plans and international pension plans, all of which have a substantial amount of plan assets, because the required funding obligations are not expected to be material and/or because such liabilities do not necessarily reflect future cash payments, as the impact of changes in economic conditions on the fair value of the pension plan assets and/or liabilities can be significant. Also, excludes $4.6 billion of liabilities related to the fair value of derivative financial instruments, legal matters and employee terminations, among other liabilities, most of which do not represent contractual obligations. See also our liquidity discussion above in this “Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources” section, as well as the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 3. Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives, Note 7A. Financial Instruments: Fair Value Measurements, Note 11E. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans and Defined Contribution Plans: Cash Flows, and Note 17. Contingencies and Certain Commitments . 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) 
 
 Includes future minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases. These amounts include an agreement we entered in April 2018 to lease space in an office building in New York City. We will relocate our global headquarters to this property with occupancy expected beginning in 2022. Our future minimum rental commitment under this 20-year lease is approximately $1.7 billion . In July 2018, we completed the sale of our current headquarters buildings. We also agreed to lease these properties from the buyer while we complete our relocation. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (e) 
 
 Includes agreements to purchase goods and services that are enforceable and legally binding and includes amounts relating to advertising, information technology services, employee benefit administration services, and potential milestone payments deemed reasonably likely to occur. Also includes obligations to make guaranteed fixed annual payments over the next 8 years in connection with the U.S. and EU approvals for Besponsa ( $422 million ) and an obligation to make guaranteed fixed annual payments over the next 9 years for Bosulif ( $240 million ), both associated with R&D arrangements. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 7E. Financial Instruments: Other Noncurrent Liabilities. Also includes consideration of $175 million paid in January 2019 related to our purchase of AstraZeneca’s small molecule anti-infective business. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 2A. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Arrangements, Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements, Equity-Method Investments and Privately Held Investment: Acquisitions . 
 
 
 
 
 
 (f) 
 
 Represents estimated cash payments related to the TCJA repatriation tax for which we plan to elect, with the filing of our 2018 U.S. Federal Consolidated Income Tax Return, payment over eight years through 2026 (with the first installment due in April 2019). Our obligations may vary as a result of changes in our uncertain tax positions and/or availability of attributes such as foreign tax and other credit carryforwards. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 5A. Tax Matters: Taxes on Income from Continuing Operations and Note 5C. Tax Matters: Deferred Taxes. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (g) 
 
 Includes only income tax amounts currently payable. We are unable to predict the timing of tax settlements related to our noncurrent obligations for uncertain tax positions as tax audits can involve complex issues and the resolution of those issues may span multiple years, particularly if subject to negotiation or litigation. 
 The above table includes amounts for potential milestone payments under collaboration, licensing or other arrangements, if the payments are deemed reasonably likely to occur. Payments under these agreements generally become due and payable only upon the achievement of certain development, regulatory and/or commercialization milestones, which may span several years and which may never occur. 
 
 In 2019 , we expect to spend approximately $2.3 billion on property, plant and equipment. We rely largely on operating cash flows to fund our capital investment needs. Due to our significant operating cash flows, we believe we have the ability to meet our capital investment needs and anticipate no delays to planned capital expenditures. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 57 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 
 
 In the ordinary course of business and in connection with the sale of assets and businesses and other transactions, we often indemnify our counterparties against certain liabilities that may arise in connection with a transaction or that are related to events and activities prior to or following a transaction. If the indemnified party were to make a successful claim pursuant to the terms of the indemnification, we may be required to reimburse the loss. These indemnification obligations generally are subject to various restrictions and limitations. Historically, we have not paid significant amounts under these provisions and, as of December 31, 2018 , the estimated fair value of our indemnification obligations was not significant. 
 Certain of our co-promotion or license agreements give our licensors or partners the rights to negotiate for, or in some cases to obtain under certain financial conditions, co-promotion or other rights in specified countries with respect to certain of our products. 
 
 Share-Purchase Plans and Accelerated Share Repurchase Agreements 
 
 Our December 2015 $11 billion share repurchase program was exhausted in the third quarter of 2018. 
 In December 2017, the Board of Directors authorized an additional $10 billion share repurchase program, and share repurchases commenced thereunder in the third quarter of 2018 (the 2017 program). 
 On March 12, 2018 , we entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement with Citibank to repurchase $4.0 billion of our common stock. 
 In December 2018, the Board of Directors authorized a new $10.0 billion share repurchase program to be utilized over time. This new program is in addition to the $4.2 billion remaining under the company’s 2017 program authorization as of December, 31 2018. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 12. Equity. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following table provides the number of shares of our common stock purchased and the cost of purchases under our publicly announced share-purchase plans, including our accelerated share repurchase agreements: 
 
 
 (SHARES IN MILLIONS, DOLLARS IN BILLIONS) 
 
 
 
 2018 (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 (b) 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 (c) 
 
 
 
 
 Shares of common stock purchased 
 
 
 
 307 
 
 
 
 
 
 150 
 
 
 
 
 
 154 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of purchase 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 12.2 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 5.0 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 5.0 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 Represents shares purchased pursuant to an accelerated share repurchase agreement with Citibank entered into on March 12, 2018, as well as other share repurchases. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 12 . Equity. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 Represents shares purchased pursuant to an accelerated share repurchase agreement with Citibank entered into on February 2, 2017. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 12. Equity. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 Represents shares purchased pursuant to an accelerated share repurchase agreement entered into on March 8, 2016. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 12. Equity. 
 
 At December 31, 2018 , our remaining share-purchase authorization was approximately $14.2 billion . 
 
 In 2019, Pfizer anticipates approximately $9 billion of share repurchases, which have been completed through February 28, 2019. 
 On February 7, 2019 , we entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement with GS&Co. to repurchase approximately $6.8 billion of our common stock. This agreement was entered into pursuant to our previously announced share repurchase authorization. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — Note 19. Subsequent Event . 
 Dividends on Common Stock 
 
 We paid dividends on our common stock of $8.0 billion in 2018 , $7.7 billion in 2017 and $7.3 billion in 2016 . In December 2018 , our Board of Directors declared a first-quarter 2019 dividend of $0.36 per share, payable on March 1, 2019 , to shareholders of record at the close of business on February 1, 2019 . The first-quarter 2019 cash dividend will be our 321 st consecutive quarterly dividend. 
 
 Our current and projected dividends provide a return to shareholders while maintaining sufficient capital to invest in growing our businesses and to seek to increase shareholder value. Our dividends are not restricted by debt covenants. While the dividend level remains a decision of Pfizer’s Board of Directors and will continue to be evaluated in the context of future business performance, we currently believe that we can support future annual dividend increases, barring significant unforeseen events. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 58 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS 
 Recently Adopted Accounting Standards 
 See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 1B. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies: Adoption of New Accounting Standards in 2018. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Recently Issued Accounting Standards, Not Adopted as of December 31, 2018 
 
 
 Standard/Description 
 
 
 
 Effective Date 
 
 
 
 Effect on the Financial Statements or Other Significant Matters 
 
 
 In February 2016, the FASB issued new guidance on accounting for leases . The new ASU provides guidance for both lessee and lessor accounting models. Among other things, the new guidance requires that a right of use asset and a lease liability be recognized for leases with a duration of greater than one year. Since its issuance, the FASB has issued several ASUs, including amending the guidance to offer an additional transition method. 
 
 
 
 
 January 1, 2019. 
 
 
 
 We have substantially completed our review of the impact of this new guidance. We will adopt this standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 utilizing the modified retrospective method, and therefore no adjustments will be made to amounts in our prior period financial statements. We expect to recognize approximately $1.5 billion of additional assets and corresponding liabilities on our balance sheet as of the beginning of fiscal 2019 and will record any cumulative effect of adopting the new standard as an adjustment to the opening balance of Retained Earnings. We do not expect that this adjustment to Retained Earnings at adoption will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. We have also assessed the potential impact of embedded leases on our consolidated financial statements, given our manufacturing outsourcing, service arrangements and other agreements. In connection with this guidance we have designed new global processes, technological solutions and related controls to provide the appropriate financial accounting and disclosure data. We continue to monitor changes, modifications, clarifications or interpretations undertaken by the FASB, which may impact our conclusions. 
 
 
 In March 2017, the FASB issued new guidance that shortens the amortization period for certain callable debt securities held at a premium . The new guidance requires the premium to be amortized to the earliest call date. 
 
 
 
 January 1, 2019. 
 
 
 
 We do not have any investments with features subject to this standard and do not expect this new guidance to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
 
 
 In July 2017, the FASB issued new guidance on accounting for certain financial instruments with characteristics of liabilities and equity, and accounting for certain financial instruments with down round features (a feature in a financial instrument that reduces the strike price of an issued financial instrument if the issuer sells shares of its stock for an amount less than the currently stated strike price of the issued financial instrument or issues an equity-linked financial instrument with a strike price below the currently stated strike price of the issued financial instrument). 
 
 
 
 January 1, 2019. 
 
 
 
 We do not have any financial instruments with features subject to this standard and do not expect this new guidance to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
 
 
 In June 2018, the FASB issued new guidance to simplify the accounting for share-based payments to nonemployees by aligning it with the accounting for share-based payments to employees, with certain exceptions. Under the guidance, the measurement of equity-classified nonemployee awards will be fixed at the grant date. 
 
 
 
 January 1, 2019. 
 
 
 
 We do not have any share-based awards issued to nonemployees and do not expect this new guidance to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
 
 
 
 In June 2016, the FASB issued new guidance on accounting for credit losses of financial instruments . The new guidance replaces the probable initial recognition threshold for incurred loss estimates in current GAAP with a methodology that reflects expected credit loss estimates. 
 
 
 
 January 1, 2020. Earlier application is permitted as of fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within that fiscal year. 
 
 
 
 We are assessing the impact of the provisions of this new guidance on our consolidated financial statements. This standard includes our financial instruments, such as accounts receivable, and investments that are generally of high credit quality. 
 Previously, when credit losses were measured under GAAP, an entity generally only considered past events and current conditions in measuring the incurred loss. 
 The new guidance requires us to identify, analyze, document and support new methodologies for quantifying expected credit loss estimates for our financial instruments, using information such as historical experience and current economic conditions, plus the use of reasonable supportable forecast information. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 59 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Standard/Description 
 
 
 
 Effective Date 
 
 
 
 Effect on the Financial Statements or Other Significant Matters 
 
 
 In January 2017, the FASB issued new guidance for goodwill impairment testing . The new guidance eliminates the requirement to perform a hypothetical purchase price allocation to measure goodwill impairment. Under the new guidance the goodwill impairment test is performed by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, and recognizing an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, although it cannot exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. 
 
 
 
 January 1, 2020. Earlier application is permitted. 
 
 
 
 We do not expect this new guidance to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
 
 
 In August 2018, the FASB issued new guidance related to customers’ accounting for implementation costs incurred in a cloud computing arrangement that is considered a service contract . The new guidance aligns the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs in such arrangements with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software. The new guidance can be adopted either prospectively or retrospectively. 
 
 
 
 January 1, 2020. Earlier application is permitted. 
 
 
 
 We are assessing the impact of the provisions of this new guidance on our consolidated financial statements. We do not expect this new guidance to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
 
 
 In November 2018, the FASB issued new guidance clarifying the interaction between the accounting guidance for collaboration agreements and revenue from contracts with customers . 
 
 
 
 January 1, 2020. Earlier application is permitted 
 
 
 
 We have assessed the impact of the provisions of this new guidance and do not expect it will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 60 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION AND FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS 
 
 This report and other written or oral statements that we make from time to time contain forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements involve substantial risks and uncertainties. We have tried, wherever possible, to identify such statements by using words such as “will,” “may,” “could,” “likely,” “ongoing,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “project,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “assume,” “target,” “forecast,” “guidance,” “goal,” “objective,” “aim,” “seek” and other words and terms of similar meaning or by using future dates in connection with any discussion of, among other things, our anticipated operating and financial performance, business plans and prospects, in-line products and product candidates, including anticipated regulatory submissions, data read-outs, study starts, approvals, performance, timing of exclusivity and potential benefits of Pfizer’s products and product candidates, strategic reviews, capital allocation, business-development plans, the benefits expected from the reorganization of our commercial operations into three businesses effective at the beginning of our 2019 fiscal year, our acquisitions and other business development activities, our ability to successfully capitalize on growth opportunities or prospects, manufacturing and product supply and plans relating to share repurchases and dividends. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, business plans and prospects, our acquisitions and other business development activities, our proposed transaction with GSK to combine our respective consumer healthcare businesses into a new consumer healthcare joint venture, prospective products or product approvals, our product pipeline, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, plans relating to share repurchases and dividends, government regulation and financial results, including, in particular, the anticipated progress in remediation efforts at certain of our Hospira manufacturing facilities and the expectations related to our supply issues set forth in the “Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook––Our Business––Product Manufacturing” section of this Financial Review, the benefits expected from the reorganization of our commercial operations into three businesses effective at the beginning of our 2019 fiscal year and our expectations regarding growth set forth in the “Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook––Our Strategy––Organizing for Growth” section of this Financial Review, the expected timing of completion and benefits of our proposed transaction with GSK to combine our respective consumer healthcare businesses into a new consumer healthcare joint venture set forth in the “Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook––Our Business,” “––Our Strategy” and “––Our Business Development Initiatives” sections of this Financial Review, the anticipated costs related to our preparations for Brexit set forth in the “Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook––Our Operating Environment––The Global Economic Environment” section of this Financial Review, our anticipated liquidity position set forth in the “Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook––Our Operating Environment––The Global Economic Environment” and the “Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources” sections of this Financial Review, our plans for increasing investment in the U.S. set forth in the “Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook––Our Strategy––Capital Allocation and Expense Management––Increasing Investment in the U.S.” section of this Financial Review, the financial guidance set forth in the “Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook––Our Financial Guidance for 2019 ” section of this Financial Review, the anticipated costs and savings, including from our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives, as well as from our Organizing for Growth initiative, set forth in the “Costs and Expenses––Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives” section of this Financial Review and in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 3. Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives , the benefits expected from our business development transactions, the planned capital spending set forth in the “Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources––Selected Measures of Liquidity and Capital Resources––Contractual Obligations” section of this Financial Review and the contributions that we expect to make from our general assets to the Company’s pension, postretirement and deferred compensation plans during 2019 set forth in the “Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources––Selected Measures of Liquidity and Capital Resources––Contractual Obligations” section of this Financial Review and in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 11. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans and Defined Contribution Plans . Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from past results and future plans and projected future results are the following: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the outcome of R&D activities, including, without limitation, the ability to meet anticipated pre-clinical or clinical endpoints, commencement and/or completion dates for our pre-clinical or clinical trials, regulatory submission dates, regulatory approval dates and/or launch dates, as well as the possibility of unfavorable pre-clinical and clinical trial results, including the possibility of unfavorable new clinical data and further analyses of existing clinical data; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the risk we may not be able to successfully address all of the comments received from regulatory authorities such as the FDA or the EMA, or obtain approval from regulators, which will depend on myriad factors, including such regulator making a determination as to whether a product’s benefits outweigh its known risks and a determination of the product’s efficacy; regulatory decisions impacting labeling, manufacturing processes, safety and/or other matters; and recommendations by technical or advisory committees, such as the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices, that may impact the use of our vaccines; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the speed with which regulatory authorizations, pricing approvals and product launches may be achieved; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the outcome of post-approval clinical trials, which could result in the loss of marketing approval, changes in product labeling, and/or new or increased concerns about the side effects or efficacy of, a product that could affect its availability or commercial potential; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the success of external business-development activities, including the ability to identify and execute on potential business development opportunities, the ability to satisfy the conditions to closing of announced transactions in the anticipated time frame or at all, the ability to realize the anticipated benefits of any such transactions, and the potential need to obtain additional equity or debt financing to pursue these opportunities which could result in increased leverage and impact our credit ratings; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 competitive developments, including the impact on our competitive position of new product entrants, in-line branded products, generic products, private label products, biosimilars and product candidates that treat diseases and conditions similar to those treated by our in-line drugs and drug candidates; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the implementation by the FDA and regulatory authorities in many other countries of an abbreviated legal pathway to approve biosimilar products, which could subject our biologic products to competition from biosimilar products, with attendant competitive pressures, after the expiration of any applicable exclusivity period and patent rights; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 61 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 risks related to our ability to develop and launch biosimilars, including risks associated with “at risk” launches, defined as the marketing of a product by Pfizer before the final resolution of litigation (including any appeals) brought by a third party alleging that such marketing would infringe one or more patents owned or controlled by the third party, and access challenges for our biosimilar products where our product may not receive appropriate formulary access or remains in a disadvantaged position relative to the innovator product; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the ability to meet competition from generic, branded and biosimilar products after the loss or expiration of patent protection for our products or competitor products; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the ability to successfully market both new and existing products domestically and internationally; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 difficulties or delays in manufacturing, including delays caused by natural events, such as hurricanes; supply shortages at our facilities; and legal or regulatory actions, such as warning letters, suspension of manufacturing, seizure of product, injunctions, debarment, voluntary recall of a product or failure to secure product approvals; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 trade buying patterns; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the impact of existing and future legislation and regulatory provisions on product exclusivity; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 trends toward managed care and healthcare cost containment, and our ability to obtain or maintain timely or adequate pricing or favorable formulary placement for our products; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the impact of any significant spending reductions or cost controls affecting Medicare, Medicaid or other publicly funded or subsidized health programs or changes in the tax treatment of employer-sponsored health insurance that may be implemented; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the impact of any U.S. healthcare reform or legislation, including any replacement, repeal, modification or invalidation of some or all of the provisions of the U.S. Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 U.S. federal or state legislation or regulatory action and/or policy efforts affecting, among other things, pharmaceutical product pricing, reimbursement or access, including under Medicaid, Medicare and other publicly funded or subsidized health programs; patient out-of-pocket costs for medicines, manufacturer prices and/or price increases that could result in new mandatory rebates and discounts or other pricing restrictions; general budget control actions; the importation of prescription drugs from outside the U.S. at prices that are regulated by governments of various foreign countries; revisions to reimbursement of biopharmaceuticals under government programs; restrictions on U.S. direct-to-consumer advertising; limitations on interactions with healthcare professionals; or the use of comparative effectiveness methodologies that could be implemented in a manner that focuses primarily on the cost differences and minimizes the therapeutic differences among pharmaceutical products and restricts access to innovative medicines; as well as pricing pressures for our products as a result of highly competitive insurance markets; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 legislation or regulatory action in markets outside the U.S. affecting pharmaceutical product pricing, reimbursement or access, including, in particular, continued government-mandated reductions in prices and access restrictions for certain biopharmaceutical products to control costs in those markets; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the exposure of our operations outside the U.S. to possible capital and exchange controls, economic conditions, expropriation and other restrictive government actions, changes in intellectual property legal protections and remedies, as well as political unrest, unstable governments and legal systems and inter-governmental disputes; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 contingencies related to actual or alleged environmental contamination; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 claims and concerns that may arise regarding the safety or efficacy of in-line products and product candidates; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 any significant breakdown, infiltration or interruption of our information technology systems and infrastructure; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 legal defense costs, insurance expenses and settlement costs; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the risk of an adverse decision or settlement and the adequacy of reserves related to legal proceedings, including patent litigation, such as claims that our patents are invalid and/or do not cover the product of the generic drug manufacturer or where one or more third parties seeks damages and/or injunctive relief to compensate for alleged infringement of its patents by our commercial or other activities, product liability and other product-related litigation, including personal injury, consumer, off-label promotion, securities, antitrust and breach of contract claims, commercial, environmental, government investigations, employment and other legal proceedings, including various means for resolving asbestos litigation, as well as tax issues; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the risk that our currently pending or future patent applications may not result in issued patents, or be granted on a timely basis, or any patent-term extensions that we seek may not be granted on a timely basis, if at all; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 our ability to protect our patents and other intellectual property, both domestically and internationally; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, including the impact of possible currency devaluations in countries experiencing high inflation rates; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 governmental laws and regulations affecting domestic and foreign operations, including, without limitation, tax obligations and changes affecting the tax treatment by the U.S. of income earned outside the U.S. that may result from pending and possible future proposals, including further clarifications and/or interpretations of the TCJA; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 any significant issues involving our largest wholesale distributors, which account for a substantial portion of our revenues; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the possible impact of the increased presence of counterfeit medicines in the pharmaceutical supply chain on our revenues and on patient confidence in the integrity of our medicines; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the end result of any negotiations between the U.K. government and the EU regarding the terms of the U.K.’s exit from the EU, which could have implications on our research, commercial and general business operations in the U.K. and the EU, including the approval and supply of our products; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 any significant issues that may arise related to the outsourcing of certain operational and staff functions to third parties, including with regard to quality, timeliness and compliance with applicable legal or regulatory requirements and industry standards; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 62 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 any significant issues that may arise related to our joint ventures and other third-party business arrangements; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 changes in U.S. generally accepted accounting principles; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 further clarifications and/or changes in interpretations of existing laws and regulations, or changes in laws and regulations, in the U.S. and other countries; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 uncertainties related to general economic, political, business, industry, regulatory and market conditions including, without limitation, uncertainties related to the impact on us, our customers, suppliers and lenders and counterparties to our foreign-exchange and interest-rate agreements of challenging global economic conditions and recent and possible future changes in global financial markets; the related risk that our allowance for doubtful accounts may not be adequate; and the risks related to volatility of our income due to changes in the market value of equity investments; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 any changes in business, political and economic conditions due to actual or threatened terrorist activity in the U.S. and other parts of the world, and related U.S. military action overseas; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 growth in costs and expenses; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 changes in our product, segment and geographic mix; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the impact of purchase accounting adjustments, acquisition-related costs, discontinued operations and certain significant items; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the impact of acquisitions, divestitures, restructurings, internal reorganizations, including the reorganization of our commercial operations into three businesses effective at the beginning of the company’s 2019 fiscal year, any other corporate strategic initiatives, and cost-reduction and productivity initiatives, each of which requires upfront costs but may fail to yield anticipated benefits and may result in unexpected costs or organizational disruption; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the impact of product recalls, withdrawals and other unusual items; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the risk of an impairment charge related to our intangible assets, goodwill or equity-method investments; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 risks related to internal control over financial reporting; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 risks and uncertainties related to acquisitions, including, among other things, the ability to realize the anticipated benefits of those acquisitions, including the possibility that the expected cost savings and/or accretion from certain of those acquisitions will not be realized or will not be realized within the expected time frame; the risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully; disruption from the transactions making it more difficult to maintain business and operational relationships; risks related to our ability to grow revenues for certain acquired products; significant transaction costs; and unknown liabilities; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 risks and uncertainties related to our proposed transaction with GSK to combine our respective consumer healthcare businesses into a new consumer healthcare joint venture, including, among other things, risks related to the satisfaction of the conditions to closing the transaction (including the failure to obtain necessary regulatory and GSK shareholder approvals) in the anticipated timeframe or at all and the possibility that the transaction does not close, risks related to the ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction, including the possibility that the expected benefits and cost synergies from the proposed transaction will not be realized or will not be realized within the expected time period, the risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully, the possibility that a future separation of the joint venture may not occur, disruption from the transaction making it more difficult to maintain business and operational relationships, negative effects of the announcement or the consummation of the proposed transaction on the market price of Pfizer’s common stock and on Pfizer’s operating results, significant transaction costs, unknown liabilities, the risk of litigation and/or regulatory actions related to the proposed transaction, other business effects, including the effects of industry, market, economic, political or regulatory conditions, future exchange and interest rates, changes in tax and other laws, regulations, rates and policies, future business combinations or disposals and competitive developments. 
 We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized. Achievement of anticipated results is subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. Investors should bear this in mind as they consider forward-looking statements, and are cautioned not to put undue reliance on forward-looking statements. 
 
 We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law or by the rules and regulations of the SEC. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects. 
 
 Certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions are discussed here and under the heading entitled “Risk Factors” in Part I, ITEM 1A. of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 . We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider any such list to be a complete set of all potential risks or uncertainties. 
 
 The operating segment information provided in this report does not purport to represent the revenues, costs and income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income that each of our operating segments would have recorded had each segment operated as a standalone company during the periods presented. 
 
 This report includes discussion of certain clinical studies relating to various in-line products and/or product candidates. These studies typically are part of a larger body of clinical data relating to such products or product candidates, and the discussion herein should be considered in the context of the larger body of data. In addition, clinical trial data are subject to differing interpretations, and, even when we view data as sufficient to support the safety and/or effectiveness of a product candidate or a new indication for an in-line product, regulatory authorities may not share our views and may require additional data or may deny approval altogether. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 63 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Financial Risk Management 
 
 The objective of our financial risk management program is to minimize the impact of foreign exchange rate movements and interest rate movements on our earnings. We manage these financial exposures through operational means and through the use of third-party instruments. These practices may change as economic conditions change. 
 
 Foreign Exchange Risk 
 
 We operate globally and, as such, we are subject to foreign exchange risk in our commercial operations, as well as in our financial assets (investments) and liabilities (borrowings). Our net investments in foreign subsidiaries are also subject to currency risk. 
 
 On the commercial side, a significant portion of our revenues and earnings is exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. See the “ Our Operating Environment — The Global Economic Environment ” section of this Financial Review for the key currencies in which we operate. We seek to manage our foreign exchange risk, in part, through operational means, including managing same-currency revenues in relation to same-currency costs and same-currency assets in relation to same-currency liabilities. Where foreign exchange risk cannot be mitigated via operational means, we may use foreign currency forward-exchange contracts and/or foreign currency swaps to manage that risk. 
 
 With respect to our financial assets and liabilities, our primary foreign exchange exposure arises predominantly from short-term and long-term intercompany receivables and payables, and, to a lesser extent, from short-term and long-term investments and debt, where the assets and/or liabilities are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the business entity. 
 
 We also hedge some forecasted intercompany sales denominated in euro, Japanese yen, Chinese renminbi, U.K. pound, Canadian dollar, and Australian dollar to protect against longer-term movements. 
 
 In addition, under certain market conditions, we may seek to protect against possible declines in the reported net investments of our foreign business entities. In these cases, we may use foreign currency swaps, foreign currency forward-exchange contracts and/or foreign currency debt. 
 
 For details about these and other financial instruments, including fair valuation methodologies, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 7A. Financial Instruments : Fair Value Measurements . 
 The fair values of our financial instrument holdings are analyzed at year-end to determine their sensitivity to foreign exchange rate changes. In this sensitivity analysis, holding all other assumptions constant and assuming that a change in one currency’s rate relative to the U.S. dollar would not have any effect on another currency’s rates relative to the U.S. dollar, if the dollar were to appreciate against all other currencies by 10%, as of December 31, 2018 , the expected adverse impact on our net income would not be significant. 
 
 Interest Rate Risk 
 
 We are subject to interest rate risk on our investments and on our borrowings. We manage interest rate risk in the aggregate, while focusing on Pfizer’s immediate and intermediate liquidity needs. 
 
 With respect to our investments, we strive to maintain a predominantly floating-rate basis position, but our strategy may change based on prevailing market conditions. Our floating-rate assets are subject to the risk that short-term interest rates may fall and, as a result, the investments would generate less interest income. Fixed-rate investments provide a known amount of interest income regardless of a change in interest rates. We sometimes use interest rate swaps in our financial investment portfolio. 
 
 We borrow primarily on a long-term, fixed-rate basis. From time to time, depending on market conditions, we will change the profile of our outstanding debt by entering into derivative financial instruments like interest rate swaps. 
 
 For details about these and other financial instruments, including fair valuation methodologies, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 7A. Financial Instruments : Fair Value Measurements . 
 
 The fair values of our financial instrument holdings are analyzed at year-end to determine their sensitivity to interest rate changes. In this sensitivity analysis, holding all other assumptions constant and assuming a parallel shift in the interest rate curve for all maturities and for all instruments, if there were a one hundred basis point decrease in interest rates as of December 31, 2018 , the expected adverse impact on our net income would not be significant. 
 
 Equity Price Risk 
 
 We hold equity securities with readily determinable fair values in life science companies as a result of certain business development transactions. While we are holding such securities, we are subject to equity price risk, and this may increase the volatility of our income in future periods due to changes in the fair value of equity investments. From time to time, we will sell such equity securities based on our business considerations, which may include limiting our price risk. 
 
 Our equity securities with readily determinable fair values are analyzed at year-end to determine their sensitivity to equity price rate changes. In this sensitivity analysis, the expected adverse impact on our net income would not be significant. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 64 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Contingencies 
 
 Legal Matters 
 
 We and certain of our subsidiaries are subject to numerous contingencies arising in the ordinary course of business, such as patent litigation, product liability and other product-related litigation, commercial litigation, environmental claims and proceedings, government investigations and guarantees and indemnifications (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 17. Contingencies and Certain Commitments ) . 
 
 Certain of these contingencies could result in losses, including damages, fines and/or civil penalties, which could be substantial, and/or criminal charges. 
 
 We believe that our claims and defenses in matters in which we are a defendant are substantial, but litigation is inherently unpredictable and excessive verdicts do occur. We do not believe that any of these matters will have a material adverse effect on our financial position. However, we could incur judgments, enter into settlements or revise our expectations regarding the outcome of certain matters, and such developments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the amounts are accrued and/or our cash flows in the period in which the amounts are paid. 
 
 We have accrued for losses that are both probable and reasonably estimable. Substantially all of our contingencies are subject to significant uncertainties and, therefore, determining the likelihood of a loss and/or the measurement of any loss can be complex. Consequently, we are unable to estimate the range of reasonably possible loss in excess of amounts accrued. Our assessments are based on estimates and assumptions that have been deemed reasonable by management, but the assessment process relies heavily on estimates and assumptions that may prove to be incomplete or inaccurate, and unanticipated events and circumstances may occur that might cause us to change those estimates and assumptions. 
 
 Tax Matters 
 
 We and certain of our subsidiaries are subject to numerous contingencies arising in the ordinary course of business for tax matters (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 5D. Tax Matters : Tax Contingencies ). 
 
 We account for income tax contingencies using a benefit recognition model. If our initial assessment fails to result in the recognition of a tax benefit, we regularly monitor our position and subsequently recognize the tax benefit: (i) if there are changes in tax law, analogous case law or there is new information that sufficiently raise the likelihood of prevailing on the technical merits of the position to “more likely than not”; (ii) if the statute of limitations expires; or (iii) if there is a completion of an audit resulting in a favorable settlement of that tax year with the appropriate agency. We regularly re-evaluate our tax positions based on the results of audits of federal, state and local and foreign income tax filings, statute of limitations expirations, changes in tax law or receipt of new information that would either increase or decrease the technical merits of a position relative to the “more-likely-than-not” standard. 
 
 Our assessments are based on estimates and assumptions that have been deemed reasonable by management, but our estimates of unrecognized tax benefits and potential tax benefits may not be representative of actual outcomes, and variation from such estimates could materially affect our financial statements in the period of settlement or when the statutes of limitations expire, as we treat these events as discrete items in the period of resolution. Finalizing audits with the relevant taxing authorities can include formal administrative and legal proceedings, and, as a result, it is difficult to estimate the timing and range of possible changes related to our uncertain tax positions, and such changes could be significant. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 65 
 
 
 
 
