 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
 
 Overview 
 
 Our business is comprised of two operating segments, the Flight Support Group (“FSG”) and the Electronic Technologies Group (“ETG”). 
 
 The FSG consists of HEICO Aerospace Holdings Corp. (“HEICO Aerospace”), which is 80% owned, and HEICO Flight Support Corp., which is wholly owned, and their collective subsidiaries, which primarily: 
 
 • Designs, Manufactures, Repairs, Overhauls and Distributes Jet Engine and Aircraft Component Replacement Parts. The FSG designs and manufactures jet engine and aircraft component replacement parts, which are approved by the Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”). In addition, the FSG repairs, overhauls and distributes jet engine and aircraft components, avionics and instruments for domestic and foreign commercial air carriers and aircraft repair companies as well as military and business aircraft operators. The FSG also manufactures and sells specialty parts as a subcontractor for aerospace and industrial original equipment manufacturers and the United States ("U.S.") government. Additionally, the FSG is a leading supplier, distributor, and integrator of military aircraft parts and support services primarily to the U.S. Department of Defense, defense prime contractors, and foreign military organizations allied with the U.S. Further, the FSG is a leading manufacturer of advanced niche components and complex composite assemblies for commercial aviation, defense and space applications. The FSG also engineers, designs and manufactures thermal insulation blankets and parts as well as removable/reusable insulation systems for aerospace, defense, commercial and industrial applications; manufactures expanded foil mesh for lightning strike protection in fixed and rotary wing aircraft; distributes aviation electrical interconnect products and electromechanical parts; overhauls industrial pumps, motors, and other hydraulic units with a focus on the support of legacy systems for the U.S. Navy; and performs tight-tolerance machining, brazing, fabricating and welding services for aerospace, defense and other industrial applications. 
 
 The ETG consists of HEICO Electronic Technologies Corp. (“HEICO Electronic”) and its subsidiaries, which primarily: 
 
 • Designs and Manufactures Electronic, Microwave and Electro-Optical Equipment, High-Speed Interface Products, High Voltage Interconnection Devices, EMI and RFI Shielding and Filters, High Voltage Advanced Power Electronics, Power Conversion Products, Underwater Locator Beacons, Memory Products, Self-Sealing Auxiliary Fuel Systems, Active Antenna Systems, Airborne Antennas, TSCM Equipment and high reliability ("Hi-Rel") electronic components. The ETG collectively designs, manufactures and sells various types of electronic, data and microwave, and electro-optical products, including infrared simulation and test equipment, laser rangefinder receivers, electrical power supplies, back-up power supplies, power conversion products, underwater locator beacons, 
 
 
 32 
 
 Index 
 emergency locator transmission beacons, flight deck annunciators, panels and indicators, electromagnetic and radio frequency interference shielding and filters, high power capacitor charging power supplies, amplifiers, traveling wave tube amplifiers, photodetectors, amplifier modules, microwave power modules, flash lamp drivers, laser diode drivers, arc lamp power supplies, custom power supply designs, cable assemblies, high voltage power supplies, high voltage interconnection devices and wire, high voltage energy generators, high frequency power delivery systems; memory products, including three-dimensional microelectronic and stacked memory, static random-access memory (SRAM) and electronically erasable programmable read-only memory (EEPROM); harsh environment electronic connectors and other interconnect products, RF and microwave amplifiers, transmitters, and receivers and integrated assemblies, sub-assemblies and components; RF sources, detectors and controllers, wireless cabin control systems, solid state power distribution and management systems, crashworthy and ballistically self-sealing auxiliary fuel systems, nuclear radiation detectors, communications and electronic intercept receivers and tuners, fuel level sensing systems, high-speed interface products that link devices, high performance active antenna systems and airborne antennas for commercial and military aircraft, precision guided munitions, other defense applications and commercial uses; silicone material for a variety of demanding applications; precision power analog monolithic, hybrid and open frame components; high-reliability ceramic-to-metal feedthroughs and connectors, technical surveillance countermeasures (TSCM) equipment to detect devices used for espionage and information theft; rugged small-form factor embedded computing solutions; custom high power filters and filter assemblies; test sockets and adapters for both engineering and production use of semiconductor devices, and radiation assurance services and products; and Hi-Rel, complex, passive electronic components and rotary joint assemblies for mostly aerospace and defense applications, in addition to other high-end applications, such as medical and energy uses including emerging "clean energy" and electrification applications. 
 
 Although we have largely emerged from the COVID-19 pandemic, our results of operations in fiscal 2023 reflected some of the pandemic's lingering impact, including its impact on our supply chain. Despite the aforementioned, we experienced continued improvement in operating results in fiscal 2023 as compared to fiscal 2022 principally reflecting improved demand for our commercial aerospace products and services. The FSG has reported thirteen consecutive quarters of sequential growth in net sales resulting from commercial air travel recovery in certain domestic travel markets, moderated by a slower recovery in international travel markets. 
 
 Additionally, our results of operations in fiscal 2023 have been affected by recent acquisitions as further detailed in Note 2, Acquisitions, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 33 
 
 Index 
 Presentation of Results of Operations and Liquidity and Capital Resources 
 
 The following discussion and analysis of our Results of Operations and Liquidity and Capital Resources includes a comparison of fiscal 2023 to fiscal 2022. A similar discussion and analysis that compares fiscal 2022 to fiscal 2021 may be found in ITEM 7, "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” of our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2022. 
 
 Results of Operations 
 
 The following table sets forth the results of our operations, net sales and operating income by segment and the percentage of net sales represented by the respective items in our Consolidated Statements of Operations (in thousands) : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year ended October 31, 
 
 
 2023 
 
 2022 
 
 Net sales 
 $2,968,105 
 
 
 $2,208,322 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 1,814,617 
 
 
 1,345,563 
 
 
 
 Selling, general and administrative expenses 
 528,149 
 
 
 365,915 
 
 
 
 Total operating costs and expenses 
 2,342,766 
 
 
 1,711,478 
 
 
 Operating income 
 $625,339 
 
 
 $496,844 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Net sales by segment: 
 
 
 
 
 
 Flight Support Group 
 $1,770,185 
 
 
 $1,255,212 
 
 
 Electronic Technologies Group 
 1,225,222 
 
 
 972,475 
 
 
 
 Intersegment sales 
 (27,302) 
 
 
 (19,365) 
 
 
 
 $2,968,105 
 
 
 $2,208,322 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Operating income by segment: 
 
 
 
 
 
 Flight Support Group 
 $387,297 
 
 
 $267,167 
 
 
 
 Electronic Technologies Group 
 285,053 
 
 
 269,473 
 
 
 
 Other, primarily corporate 
 (47,011) 
 
 
 (39,796) 
 
 
 
 $625,339 
 
 
 $496,844 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Net sales 
 100.0 
 % 
 
 100.0 
 % 
 
 Gross profit 
 38.9 
 % 
 
 39.1 
 % 
 
 
 Selling, general and administrative expenses 
 17.8 
 % 
 
 16.6 
 % 
 
 Operating income 
 21.1 
 % 
 
 22.5 
 % 
 
 Interest expense 
 2.5 
 % 
 
 .3 
 % 
 
 Other income 
 .1 
 % 
 
 — 
 % 
 
 Income tax expense 
 3.7 
 % 
 
 4.5 
 % 
 
 
 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 
 1.4 
 % 
 
 1.8 
 % 
 
 
 Net income attributable to HEICO 
 13.6 
 % 
 
 15.9 
 % 
 
 
 34 
 
 Index 
 Comparison of Fiscal 2023 to Fiscal 2022 
 
 Net Sales 
 
 Our consolidated net sales in fiscal 2023 increased by 34% to a record $2,968.1 million, up from net sales of $2,208.3 million in fiscal 2022. The increase in consolidated net sales principally reflects an increase of $515.0 million (a 41% increase) to a record $1,770.2 million in net sales of the FSG and an increase of $252.7 million (a 26% increase) to a record $1,225.2 million in net sales of the ETG. The net sales increase in the FSG reflects strong organic growth of 21% as well as net sales of $251.0 million contributed by fiscal 2023 and 2022 acquisitions. The FSG's organic net sales increase reflects increased demand for the majority of our commercial aerospace products and services resulting from continued recovery in global commercial air travel as compared to the prior year. As such, organic net sales increased by $188.4 million, $49.3 million and $26.2 million within our aftermarket replacement parts, repair and overhaul parts and services, and specialty products product lines, respectively. The net sales increase in the ETG principally reflects $232.8 million contributed by fiscal 2023 and 2022 acquisitions and organic growth of 1%. The ETG's organic net sales increase is mainly attributable to increased demand for our aerospace, space and other electronics products resulting in net sales increases of $23.7 million, $12.9 million and $9.5 million, respectively, partially offset by decreased demand for our defense products resulting in a net sales decrease of $28.2 million. Although sales price changes were not a significant contributing factor to the change in net sales of the FSG and ETG in fiscal 2023, recent cost inflation may lead to higher sales prices during fiscal 2024. 
 
 Our net sales in fiscal 2023 and 2022 by market consisted of approximately 48% and 43% from the commercial aviation industry, respectively, 35% and 39% from the defense and space industries, respectively, and 17% and 18% from other industrial markets including electronics, medical and telecommunications, respectively. 
 
 Gross Profit and Operating Expenses 
 
 Our consolidated gross profit margin was 38.9% in fiscal 2023, as compared to 39.1% in fiscal 2022, principally reflecting a 2.3% decrease in the ETG's gross profit margin, partially offset by a 1.7% improvement in the FSG's gross profit margin. The reduction in the ETG's gross profit margin principally reflects the previously mentioned decrease in net sales of our defense products, partially offset by the previously mentioned increase in net sales of our aerospace products. The increase in the FSG's gross profit margin principally reflects the previously mentioned higher net sales within our aftermarket replacement parts and repair and overhaul parts and services product lines, and lower inventory obsolescence expenses in fiscal 2023 mainly due to increased demand within our aftermarket replacement parts product line. Total new product research and development expenses included within our consolidated cost of sales were $95.8 million in fiscal 2023, up from $76.1 million in fiscal 2022. 
 
 Our consolidated selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expenses were $528.1 million in fiscal 2023, as compared to $365.9 million in fiscal 2022. The increase in 
 
 
 35 
 
 Index 
 consolidated SG&A expenses principally reflects $96.8 million attributable to our fiscal 2023 and 2022 acquisitions, costs incurred to support the previously mentioned net sales growth resulting in increases of $28.0 million and $10.8 million in other general and administrative expenses and other selling expenses, respectively, a $15.8 million increase in performance-based compensation expense and a $20.0 million increase in acquisition costs mainly related to fiscal 2023 acquisitions, partially offset by a $9.1 million impact from the amendment and termination of a contingent consideration agreement pertaining to a fiscal 2021 acquisition. 
 
 Our consolidated SG&A expenses as a percentage of net sales were 17.8% in fiscal 2023, as compared to 16.6% in fiscal 2022. The increase in consolidated SG&A expenses as a percentage of net sales principally reflects a .7% impact from the previously mentioned increase in acquisition costs, a .4% impact attributable to the fiscal 2023 and 2022 acquisitions, and a .3% impact from changes in the estimated fair value of contingent consideration, partially offset by a .3% impact from the previously mentioned amendment and termination of a contingent consideration agreement. 
 
 Operating Income 
 
 Our consolidated operating income increased by 26% to a record $625.3 million in fiscal 2023, up from $496.8 million in fiscal 2022. The increase in consolidated operating income principally reflects a $120.1 million increase (a 45% increase) to a record $387.3 million in operating income of the FSG and a $15.6 million increase (a 6% increase) to a record $285.1 million in operating income of the ETG. The increase in operating income of the FSG principally reflects the previously mentioned net sales growth, improved gross profit margin, and the previously mentioned amendment and termination of a contingent consideration agreement, partially offset by a $21.6 million increase in performance-based compensation expense and a $15.8 million increase in acquisition costs mainly related to a fiscal 2023 acquisition. The increase in operating income of the ETG principally reflects the previously mentioned net sales increase, partially offset by the previously mentioned lower gross profit margin, higher costs resulting from the impact of our January 2023 acquisition, $7.2 million in unfavorable changes in the estimated fair value of accrued contingent consideration, and a $4.2 million increase in acquisition costs mainly related to a fiscal 2023 acquisition. 
 
 Our consolidated operating income as a percentage of net sales was 21.1% in fiscal 2023, as compared to 22.5% in fiscal 2022. Our consolidated operating income as a percentage of net sales in fiscal 2023 principally reflects a decrease in the ETG's operating income as a percentage of net sales to 23.3% in fiscal 2023, as compared to 27.7% in fiscal 2022, partially offset by an increase in the FSG’s operating income as a percentage of net sales to 21.9% in fiscal 2023, up from 21.3% in fiscal 2022. The decrease in the ETG's operating income as a percentage of net sales principally reflects the previously mentioned lower gross profit margin and a 2.2% impact from an increase in SG&A expenses as a percentage of net sales. The increase in the ETG's SG&A expenses as a percentage of net sales is inclusive of a .7% impact from the previously mentioned higher costs of our January 2023 acquisition, a .7% impact from the previously mentioned changes in the estimated fair value of contingent consideration, and a .3% impact from the previously mentioned higher acquisition expenses. The increase in the FSG's operating 
 
 
 36 
 
 Index 
 income as a percentage of net sales principally reflects the previously mentioned improved gross profit margin and a .5% impact from the previously mentioned amendment and termination of a contingent consideration agreement, partially offset by a .9% and .4% impact from the previously mentioned increases in acquisition costs and performance-based compensation expense, respectively. 
 
 Interest Expense 
 
 Interest expense increased to $73.0 million in fiscal 2023, as compared to $6.4 million in fiscal 2022. The increase in interest expense was principally due to an increase in the amount of outstanding debt as well as higher interest rates. 
 
 Other Income 
 
 Other income in fiscal 2023 and 2022 was not material. 
 
 Income Tax Expense 
 
 Our effective tax rate decreased to 20.0% in fiscal 2023, down from 20.4% in fiscal 2022. The decrease in our effective tax rate principally reflects a favorable impact from tax-exempt unrealized gains in the cash surrender values of life insurance policies related to the HEICO Leadership Compensation Plan in fiscal 2023 as compared to tax-exempt unrealized losses recognized in fiscal 2022. This was partially offset by a larger tax benefit from stock option exercises recognized in the first quarter of fiscal 2022 and the portion of acquisition costs associated with fiscal 2023 acquisitions that were not deductible for income tax purposes. We recognized a discrete tax benefit from stock option exercises in both the first quarter of fiscal 2023 and 2022 of $6.2 million and $17.8 million, respectively. 
 
 Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests 
 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests relates to the 20% noncontrolling interest held by Lufthansa Technik AG in HEICO Aerospace Holdings Corp. and the noncontrolling interests held by others in certain subsidiaries of the FSG and ETG. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests was $40.8 million in fiscal 2023, as compared to $38.9 million in fiscal 2022. The increase in net income attributable to noncontrolling interests principally reflects improved operating results of certain subsidiaries of the FSG and ETG in which noncontrolling interests are held. 
 
 Net Income Attributable to HEICO 
 
 Net income attributable to HEICO increased by 15% to a record $403.6 million, or $2.91 per diluted share, in fiscal 2023, up from $351.7 million, or $2.55 per diluted share, in fiscal 2022 principally reflecting the previously mentioned higher consolidated operating income, partially offset by the increase in interest expense. 
 
 
 
 37 
 
 Index 
 Outlook 
 
 As we look ahead to fiscal 2024, we anticipate net sales growth in both the FSG and ETG, principally driven by contributions from our fiscal 2023 acquisitions and demand for the majority of our products. Additionally, continued inflationary pressures may lead to higher material and labor costs. Further, we plan to actively work on the continued integration of Wencor Group into our business and operations, continue our commitment to developing new products and services and further market penetration, while maintaining our financial strength and flexibility. 
 
 Inflation 
 
 We have generally experienced increases in our costs of labor, materials and services consistent with overall rates of inflation. The impact of such increases on net income attributable to HEICO has been generally minimized by efforts to lower costs through manufacturing efficiencies and cost reductions as well as selective price increases, as was done in fiscal 2023. However, continued cost inflation during fiscal 2024 may require additional sales price increases in order to mitigate their impact on net income attributable to HEICO. 
 
 Liquidity and Capital Resources 
 
 The following table summarizes our capitalization (in thousands): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 As of October 31, 
 
 
 2023 
 
 2022 
 
 Cash and cash equivalents 
 $171,048 
 
 
 $139,504 
 
 
 Total debt (including current portion) 
 2,478,078 
 
 
 290,274 
 
 
 Shareholders’ equity 
 3,193,151 
 
 
 2,648,306 
 
 
 Total capitalization (debt plus equity) 
 5,671,229 
 
 
 2,938,580 
 
 
 Total debt to total capitalization 
 44% 
 
 10% 
 
 Our principal uses of cash include acquisitions, capital expenditures, cash dividends, distributions to noncontrolling interests, interest payments and working capital needs. Capital expenditures in fiscal 2024 are anticipated to be approximately $65 million. We finance our activities primarily from our operating and financing activities, including borrowings under our revolving credit facility. 
 
 As of December 18, 2023, we had approximately $739 million of unused committed availability under the terms of our revolving credit facility. Based on our current outlook, we believe that net cash provided by operating activities and available borrowings under our revolving credit facility will be sufficient to fund our cash requirements for at least the next twelve months. 
 
 
 
 
 38 
 
 Index 
 Operating Activities 
 
 Net cash provided by operating activities was $448.7 million in fiscal 2023 and consisted primarily of net income from consolidated operations of $444.4 million, depreciation and amortization expense of $130.0 million (a non-cash ITEM), $15.5 million in share-based compensation expense (a non-cash ITEM) and $15.3 million in employer contributions to the HEICO Savings and Investment Plan (a non-cash ITEM), partially offset by a $117.4 million increase in net working capital, a $26.5 million deferred income tax benefit (a non-cash ITEM), and a $9.1 million impact from the amendment and termination of a contingent consideration agreement (a non-cash ITEM). The increase in net working capital is inclusive of a $124.8 million increase in inventories to support an increase in consolidated backlog and a $65.6 million increase in accounts receivable resulting from the previously mentioned higher net sales and the timing of collections, partially offset by a $72.6 million increase in accrued expenses and other current liabilities principally from a higher level of accrued performance based-compensation due to the improved operating results and an increase in contract liabilities. 
 
 Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $19.1 million in fiscal 2023 from $467.9 million in fiscal 2022. The decrease is principally attributable to a $56.0 million increase in net working capital, a $35.4 million increase in deferred income tax benefits, and a $9.1 million impact from the amendment and termination of a contingent consideration agreement, partially offset by a $53.8 million increase in net income from consolidated operations and a $33.7 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense. The increase in net working capital primarily resulted from the previously mentioned increase in inventories and accounts receivable, as well as a decrease in income taxes payable, partially offset by the previously mentioned increase in accrued expenses and other current liabilities. 
 
 Net cash provided by operating activities was $467.9 million in fiscal 2022 and consisted primarily of net income from consolidated operations of $390.6 million, depreciation and amortization expense of $96.3 million (a non-cash ITEM), net changes in other long-term liabilities and assets related to the LCP of $15.4 million (principally participant deferrals and employer contributions), $12.6 million in share-based compensation expense (a non-cash ITEM), and $12.2 million in employer contributions to the HEICO Savings and Investment Plan (a non-cash ITEM), partially offset by a $61.4 million increase in net working capital. The increase in net working capital principally reflects an $89.2 million increase in inventories to support the increase in our consolidated backlog, partially offset by a $34.1 million increase in accrued expenses and other current liabilities mainly reflecting an increase in contingent consideration and contract liabilities. 
 
 Investing Activities 
 
 Net cash used in investing activities totaled $2,484.5 million in fiscal 2023 and related primarily to acquisitions of $2,421.8 million, capital expenditures of $49.4 million, and investments related to the LCP of $18.9 million. Further details regarding our acquisitions may be found in Note 2, Acquisitions, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 
 
 
 39 
 
 Index 
 Net cash used in investing activities totaled $395.8 million in fiscal 2022 and related primarily to acquisitions of $347.3 million, capital expenditures of $32.0 million, and investments related to the LCP of $15.3 million. 
 
 Financing Activities 
 
 Net cash provided by financing activities in fiscal 2023 totaled $2,065.0 million. During fiscal 2023, we borrowed $1,964.0 million under our revolving credit facility and received $1,189.5 million in proceeds from the issuance of senior unsecured notes, which were partially offset by $989.0 million in payments made on our revolving credit facility, $36.6 million of distributions to noncontrolling interests, $27.4 million of cash dividends on our common stock, redemptions of common stock related to stock option exercises aggregating $14.8 million, $12.6 million of contingent consideration payments, and $10.1 million paid of debt issuance costs. 
 
 Net cash used in financing activities in fiscal 2022 totaled $33.8 million. During fiscal 2022, we made $212.0 million in payments on our revolving credit facility, redeemed common stock related to stock option exercises aggregating $25.9 million, made $25.1 million of distributions to noncontrolling interests, paid $24.5 million in cash dividends on our common stock and paid $8.7 million to acquire certain noncontrolling interests, which were partially offset by $262.0 million of borrowings under our revolving credit facility. 
 
 Revolving Credit Facility 
 
 In November 2017, we entered into a $1.3 billion Revolving Credit Facility Agreement ("Credit Facility") with a bank syndicate. The Credit Facility may be used to finance acquisitions and for working capital and other general corporate purposes, including capital expenditures. In December 2020, we entered into an amendment to increase the capacity by $200 million to $1.5 billion. In April 2022, we entered into an amendment to extend the maturity date of our Credit Facility by one year to November 2024 and to replace the Eurocurrency Rate with Adjusted Term SOFR as an election in which borrowings under the Credit Facility accrue interest, as such capitalized terms are defined in the Credit Facility. In July 2023, we entered into a third amendment to our Credit Facility, to, among other things, (i) increase the capacity by $500 million to $2.0 billion, (ii) extend the maturity date to July 2028, and (iii) increase the applicable rate with respect to certain total leverage ratio tiers in the pricing grid. The Credit Facility includes a feature that will allow us to increase the capacity by $750 million to become a $2.75 billion facility through increased commitments from existing lenders. 
 
 Borrowings under the Credit Facility accrue interest at our election of the Base Rate or Adjusted Term SOFR, plus in each case, the Applicable Rate (based on the Company’s Total Leverage Ratio), as such capitalized terms are defined in the Credit Facility. The Base Rate for any day is a fluctuating rate per annum equal to the highest of (i) the Prime Rate; (ii) the Federal Funds Rate plus .50%; and (iii) Adjusted Term SOFR for an Interest Period of one month plus 100 basis points. Adjusted Term SOFR is the rate per annum equal to Term SOFR plus a Term SOFR Adjustment of .10%; provided that Adjusted Term SOFR as so determined shall never be less than 0%. The Applicable Rate for SOFR Loans ranges from 1.125% to 2.00%. The 
 
 
 40 
 
 Index 
 Applicable Rate for Base Rate Loans ranges from .125% to 1.00%. A fee is charged on the amount of the unused commitment ranging from .15% to .35% (depending on the Company’s Total Leverage Ratio). The Credit Facility also includes a $200 million sublimit for swingline borrowings and $100 million sublimits for borrowings made in foreign currencies and for letters of credit. Outstanding principal, accrued and unpaid interest and other amounts payable under the Credit Facility may be accelerated upon an event of default, as such events are described in the Credit Facility. The Credit Facility is unsecured and contains covenants that require, among other things, the maintenance of a Total Leverage Ratio and an Interest Coverage Ratio, as such capitalized terms are defined in the Credit Facility. We were in compliance with all financial and nonfinancial covenants of the Credit Facility as of October 31, 2023. 
 
 Senior Unsecured Notes 
 
 On July 27, 2023, we completed the public offer and sale of senior unsecured notes, which consisted of $600 million principal amount of 5.25% Senior Notes due August 1, 2028 (the "2028 Notes") and $600 million principal amount of 5.35% Senior Notes due August 1, 2033 (the "2033 Notes" and, collectively with the 2028 Notes, the "Notes"). Interest on the Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on February 1 and August 1 of each year, commencing February 1, 2024. The 2028 Notes and 2033 Notes each have an effective interest rate of 5.5%. The Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by all of our existing and future subsidiaries that guarantee our obligations under the Credit Facility (the “Guarantor Group”). 
 
 Other Obligations and Commitments 
 
 The holders of equity interests in certain of our subsidiaries have rights (“Put Rights”) that require us to provide cash consideration for their equity interests (the “Redemption Amount”) at fair value or at a formula that management intended to reasonably approximate fair value based solely on a multiple of future earnings over a measurement period. As of October 31, 2023, management’s estimate of the aggregate Redemption Amount of all Put Rights that we could be required to pay is approximately $364.8 million, which is included within redeemable noncontrolling interests in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. The estimated aggregate Redemption Amount of the Put Rights that are currently puttable, previously put, or becoming puttable during fiscal 2024 is approximately $152.9 million, of which approximately $92.4 million would be payable in fiscal 2024 should all of the eligible associated noncontrolling interest holders elect to exercise their Put Rights during fiscal 2024. See Note 13, Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 
 
 See Note 5, Short-Term and Long-Term Debt, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding our long-term debt obligations. 
 
 See Note 8, Fair Value Measurements, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information pertaining to contingent consideration obligations. As of October 31, 2023, the estimated fair value of contingent consideration payable in fiscal 2024 was $37.3 million. 
 
 
 41 
 
 Index 
 See Note 9, Leases, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information pertaining to future minimum lease payments relating to the Company’s operating and finance lease obligations. 
 
 Guarantor Group Summarized Financial Information 
 
 The Notes were issued pursuant to an Indenture, dated as of July 27, 2023 (the “Base Indenture”), between HEICO and certain of its subsidiaries (collectively, the "Subsidiary Guarantors") and Truist Bank, as trustee (the “Trustee”), as supplemented by a First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of July 27, 2023 (the “First Supplemental Indenture” and, together with the Base Indenture, the “Indenture”), between us, Subsidiary Guarantors and the Trustee. The Notes are direct, unsecured senior obligations of HEICO and rank equally in right of payment with all of our existing and future senior unsecured indebtedness. Each Subsidiary Guarantor is owned either directly or indirectly by the Company and jointly and severally guarantee our obligations under the Notes. None of the Subsidiary Guarantors are organized outside of the U.S. A list of the Subsidiary Guarantors is set forth in Exhibit 22 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
 
 Under the Indenture, holders of the Notes will be deemed to have consented to the release of a subsidiary guarantee provided by a subsidiary guarantor, without any action required on the part of the Trustee or any holder of the Notes, upon such subsidiary guarantor ceasing to guarantee or to be an obligor with respect to the Credit Facility. Accordingly, if the lenders under the Credit Facility release a subsidiary guarantor from its guarantee of, or obligations as a borrower under, the Credit Facility, the obligations of the subsidiary guarantors to guarantee the Notes will immediately terminate. If any of our future subsidiaries incur obligations under the Credit Facility while the Notes are outstanding, then such subsidiary will be required to guarantee the Notes. 
 
 In addition, a subsidiary guarantor will be released and relieved from all its obligations under its subsidiary guarantee in the following circumstances, each of which is permitted by the indenture: 
 
 • upon the sale or other disposition (including by way of consolidation or merger), in one transaction or a series of related transactions, of a majority of the total voting stock of such subsidiary guarantor (other than to us or any of our affiliates); or 
 • upon the sale or disposition of all or substantially all the property of such subsidiary guarantor (other than to any of our affiliates or another subsidiary guarantor); 
 
 provided, however, that, in each case, such transaction is permitted by the Credit Facility and after giving effect to such transaction, such subsidiary guarantor is no longer liable for any subsidiary guarantee or other obligations in respect of the Credit Facility. The subsidiary guarantee of a subsidiary guarantor also will be released if we exercise our legal defeasance, covenant defeasance option or discharge the Indenture. 
 
 
 
 42 
 
 Index 
 We conduct our operations almost entirely through our subsidiaries. Accordingly, the Guarantor Group’s cash flow and ability to service any guaranteed registered debt securities will depend on the earnings of our subsidiaries and the distribution of those earnings to the Guarantor Group, including the earnings of the non-guarantor subsidiaries, whether by dividends, loans or otherwise. Holders of the guaranteed registered debt securities will have a direct claim only against the Guarantor Group. 
 
 The following tables include summarized financial information for the Guarantor Group (in thousands). The information for the Guarantor Group is presented on a combined basis, excluding intercompany balances and transactions between us and the Guarantor Group and excluding investments in and equity in the earnings of non-guarantor subsidiaries. The Guarantor Group’s amounts due from, amounts due to, and transactions with non-guarantor subsidiaries have been presented in separate line items. The consolidating schedules are provided in accordance with the reporting requirements of Rule 13-01 under SEC Regulation S-X for the issuer and guarantor subsidiaries. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 As of 
 
 
 October 31, 2023 
 
 Current assets (excluding net intercompany receivable from non-guarantor subsidiaries) 
 $1,440,062 
 
 
 Noncurrent assets 
 4,490,490 
 
 
 Net intercompany receivable from/ (payable to) non-guarantor subsidiaries 
 182,795 
 
 
 Current liabilities (excluding net intercompany payable to non-guarantor subsidiaries) 
 531,466 
 
 
 Noncurrent liabilities 
 2,895,592 
 
 
 Redeemable noncontrolling interests 
 252,013 
 
 
 Noncontrolling interests 
 37,786 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year ended 
 
 
 
 
 October 31, 2023 
 
 
 
 Net sales 
 $2,365,569 
 
 
 
 
 Gross profit 
 889,226 
 
 
 
 
 Operating income 
 507,881 
 
 
 
 
 Net income from consolidated operations 
 356,640 
 
 
 
 
 Net income attributable to HEICO 
 327,669 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year ended 
 
 
 
 
 October 31, 2023 
 
 
 
 Intercompany net sales 
 $1,986 
 
 
 
 
 Intercompany management fee 
 3,430 
 
 
 
 
 Intercompany interest income 
 7,120 
 
 
 
 
 Intercompany dividends 
 57,080 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 43 
 
 Index 
 Critical Accounting Estimates 
 
 We believe that the following are our most critical accounting estimates, which require management to make judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain. 
 
 Assumptions utilized to determine fair value in connection with business combinations, contingent consideration arrangements and in goodwill and intangible assets impairment tests are highly judgmental. If there is a material change in such assumptions or if there is a material change in the conditions or circumstances influencing fair value, we could be required to recognize a material impairment charge. See ITEM 1A., Risk Factors , for a list of factors which may cause our actual results to differ materially from anticipated results. 
 
 Revenue Recognition 
 
 HEICO recognizes revenue when it transfers control of a promised good or service to a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration it expects to receive in exchange for the good or service. Our performance obligations are satisfied and control is transferred either at a point-in-time or over-time. The majority of our revenue is recognized at a point-in-time when control is transferred, which is generally evidenced by the shipment or delivery of the product to the customer, a transfer of title, a transfer of the significant risks and rewards of ownership, and customer acceptance. For certain contracts under which we produce products with no alternative use and for which we have an enforceable right to recover costs incurred plus a reasonable profit margin for work completed to date and for certain other contracts under which we create or enhance a customer-owned asset while performing repair and overhaul services, control is transferred to the customer over-time. HEICO recognizes revenue using an over-time recognition model for these types of contracts. 
 
 We utilize the cost-to-cost method as a measure of progress for performance obligations that are satisfied over-time as we believe this input method best represents the transfer of control to the customer. Under this method, revenue for the current period is recorded at an amount equal to the ratio of costs incurred to date divided by total estimated contract costs multiplied by (i) the transaction price, less (ii) cumulative revenue recognized in prior periods. Contract costs include all direct material and labor costs and those indirect costs related to contract performance, such as indirect labor, supplies, tools, repairs and depreciation. 
 
 Under the cost-to-cost method, the extent of progress toward completion is measured based on the proportion of costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs at completion of the performance obligation. These projections require management to make numerous assumptions and estimates relating to items such as the complexity of design and related development costs, performance of subcontractors, availability and cost of materials, labor productivity and cost, overhead, capital costs, and manufacturing efficiency. We review our cost estimates on a periodic basis, or when circumstances change and warrant a modification to a previous estimate. Cost estimates are largely based on negotiated or estimated purchase contract terms, historical performance trends and other economic projections. 
 
 
 
 44 
 
 Index 
 For certain contracts with similar characteristics and for which revenue is recognized using an over-time model, we use a portfolio approach to estimate the amount of revenue to recognize. For each portfolio of contracts, the respective work in process and/or finished goods inventory balances are identified and the portfolio-specific margin is applied to estimate the pro rata portion of the transaction price to recognize in relation to the costs incurred. This approach is utilized only when the resulting revenue recognition is not expected to be materially different than if the accounting was applied to the individual contracts. 
 
 Certain of our contracts give rise to variable consideration when they contain items such as customer rebates, credits, volume purchase discounts, penalties and other provisions that may impact the total consideration we will receive. We include variable consideration in the transaction price generally by applying the most likely amount method of the consideration that we expect to be entitled to receive based on an assessment of all available information (i.e., historical experience, current and forecasted performance) and only to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal of revenue recognized will not occur when the uncertainty is resolved. We estimate variable consideration by applying the most likely amount method when there are a limited number of outcomes related to the resolution of the variable consideration. 
 
 Changes in estimates that result in adjustments to net sales and cost of sales are recognized as necessary in the period they become known on a cumulative catch-up basis. Changes in estimates did not have a material effect on net income from consolidated operations in fiscal 2023, 2022 and 2021. 
 
 Valuation of Inventory 
 
 Inventory is stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value, with cost being determined on the first-in, first-out or the average cost basis. Losses, if any, are recognized fully in the period when identified. 
 
 We periodically evaluate the carrying value of inventory, giving consideration to factors such as its physical condition, sales patterns and expected future demand in order to estimate the amount necessary to write down any slow moving, obsolete or damaged inventory. These estimates could vary significantly from actual amounts based upon future economic conditions, customer inventory levels, or competitive factors that were not foreseen or did not exist when the estimated write-downs were made. 
 
 In accordance with industry practice, all inventories are classified as a current asset including portions with long production cycles, some of which may not be realized within one year. 
 
 
 
 45 
 
 Index 
 Business Combinations 
 
 We allocate the purchase price of acquired entities to the underlying tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities and any noncontrolling interests assumed based on their estimated fair values, with any excess recorded as goodwill. Determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities and noncontrolling interests assumed requires management’s judgment and often involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions, including assumptions with respect to future cash inflows and outflows, discount rates, asset lives and market multiples, among other items. We determine the fair values of intangible assets acquired generally in consultation with third-party valuation advisors. 
 
 As part of the agreement to acquire certain subsidiaries, we may be obligated to pay contingent consideration should the acquired entity meet certain earnings objectives subsequent to the date of acquisition. As of the acquisition date, contingent consideration is recorded at fair value as determined through the use of a probability-based scenario analysis approach. Under this method, a set of discrete potential future subsidiary earnings is determined using internal estimates based on various revenue growth rate assumptions for each scenario. A probability of likelihood is then assigned to each discrete potential future earnings estimate and the resultant contingent consideration is calculated and discounted using a weighted average discount rate reflecting the credit risk of HEICO. Subsequent to the acquisition date, the fair value of such contingent consideration is measured each reporting period and any changes are recorded to SG&A expenses within our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Changes in either the revenue growth rates, related earnings or the discount rate could result in a material change to the amount of contingent consideration accrued. As of October 31, 2023 and 2022, $71.1 million and $82.8 million of contingent consideration was accrued within our Consolidated Balance Sheets, respectively. During fiscal 2023, 2022 and 2021, such fair value measurement adjustments resulted in net (decreases) increases to SG&A expenses of ($.7) million, ($7.6) million and $1.2 million, respectively. For further information regarding our contingent consideration arrangements, see Note 8, Fair Value Measurements, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 
 Valuation of Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 
 
 We test goodwill for impairment annually as of October 31, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of goodwill may exceed its fair value. When testing goodwill for impairment, we have the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more-likely-than-not that the estimated fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If we elect to perform a qualitative assessment and determine that an impairment is more-likely-than-not, we are then required to perform a quantitative impairment test, otherwise no further analysis is required. We also may elect not to perform a qualitative assessment and, instead, proceed directly to a quantitative impairment test. When performing the quantitative impairment test, we compare the fair value of each of our reporting units to its carrying value to determine potential impairment and an impairment loss is recognized in the amount by which the carrying value of a reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds its fair value. The 
 
 
 46 
 
 Index 
 fair values of our reporting units are determined using a weighted average of a market approach and an income approach. Under the market approach, fair values are estimated using published market multiples for comparable companies. We calculate fair values under the income approach by taking estimated future cash flows that are based on internal projections and other assumptions deemed reasonable by management and discounting them using an estimated weighted average cost of capital. Based on the annual goodwill impairment test as of October 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, we determined there was no impairment of our goodwill. The fair value of each of our reporting units calculated as part of our quantitative impairment test significantly exceeded its carrying value as of October 31, 2023. 
 
 We test each non-amortizing intangible asset (principally trade names) for impairment annually as of October 31, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. To derive the fair value of our trade names, we utilize an income approach, which relies upon management's assumptions of royalty rates, projected revenues and discount rates. We also test each amortizing intangible asset for impairment if events or circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. The test consists of determining whether the carrying value of such assets will be recovered through undiscounted expected future cash flows. If the total of the undiscounted future cash flows is less than the carrying amount of those assets, we recognize an impairment loss based on the excess of the carrying amount over the fair value of the assets. The determination of fair value requires us to make a number of estimates, assumptions and judgments of underlying factors such as projected revenues and related earnings as well as discount rates. Based on the intangible asset impairment tests conducted, we incurred an immaterial impairment loss in fiscal 2023 and did not recognize any impairment losses in fiscal 2022 and 2021. 
 
 New Accounting Pronouncements 
 
 See Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies - New Accounting Pronouncements, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 
 
 Forward-Looking Statements 
 
 Certain statements in this report constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements contained herein that are not clearly historical in nature may be forward-looking and the words “anticipate,” “believe,” “expect,” “estimate” and similar expressions are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. Any forward-looking statement contained herein, in press releases, written statements or other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission or in communications and discussions with investors and analysts in the normal course of business through meetings, phone calls and conference calls, concerning our operations, economic performance and financial condition are subject to risks, uncertainties and contingencies. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events. All forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, which may cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from anticipated results, performance or achievements. Also, 
 
 
 47 
 
 Index 
 forward-looking statements are based upon management’s estimates of fair values and of future costs, using currently available information. Therefore, actual results may differ materially from those expressed in or implied by those forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause such differences include: 
 
 • The severity, magnitude and duration of public health threats, such as the COVID-19 pandemic; 
 
 • Our liquidity and the amount and timing of cash generation; 
 
 • Lower commercial air travel, airline fleet changes or airline purchasing decisions, which could cause lower demand for our goods and services; 
 
 • Product specification costs and requirements, which could cause an increase to our costs to complete contracts; 
 
 • Governmental and regulatory demands, export policies and restrictions, reductions in defense, space or homeland security spending by U.S. and/or foreign customers or competition from existing and new competitors, which could reduce our sales; 
 
 • Our ability to introduce new products and services at profitable pricing levels, which could reduce our sales or sales growth; 
 
 • Product development or manufacturing difficulties, which could increase our product development and manufacturing costs and delay sales; and 
 
 • Our ability to make acquisitions, including obtaining any applicable domestic and/or foreign governmental approvals, and achieve operating synergies from acquired businesses; customer credit risk; interest, foreign currency exchange and income tax rates; and economic conditions, including the effects of inflation, within and outside of the aviation, defense, space, medical, telecommunications and electronics industries, which could negatively impact our costs and revenues. 
 
 For further information on these and other factors that potentially could materially affect our financial results, see ITEM 1A, Risk Factors . We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except to the extent required by applicable law. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 48 
 
 
 Index 
