 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 GLOSSARY OF DEFINED TERMS 
 
 Unless the context requires otherwise, references to “Pfizer,” “the Company,” “we,” “us” or “our” in this 2016 Financial Report (defined below) refer to Pfizer Inc. and its subsidiaries. We also have used several other terms in this 2016 Financial Report, most of which are explained or defined below: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 This Financial Report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016, which was filed as Exhibit 13 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016 
 
 
 2016 Form 10-K 
 
 Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016 
 
 
 AAV 
 
 Adeno-Associated Virus 
 
 
 ABO 
 
 Accumulated postretirement benefit obligation 
 
 
 ACA (Also referred to as U.S. Healthcare Legislation) 
 
 U.S. Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act. 
 
 
 ACIP 
 
 Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices 
 
 
 ALK 
 
 anaplastic lymphoma kinase 
 
 
 Allergan 
 
 Allergan plc 
 
 
 Alliance revenues 
 
 Revenues from alliance agreements under which we co-promote products discovered or developed by other companies or us 
 
 
 AM-Pharma 
 
 AM-Pharma B.V. 
 
 
 Anacor 
 
 Anacor Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 
 
 
 Astellas 
 
 Astellas Pharma U.S. Inc. 
 
 
 ASU 
 
 Accounting Standards Update 
 
 
 ATM-AVI 
 
 aztreonam-avibactam 
 
 
 Bamboo 
 
 Bamboo Therapeutics, Inc. 
 
 
 Baxter 
 
 Baxter International Inc. 
 
 
 BMS 
 
 Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 
 
 
 CDC 
 
 U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 
 
 
 Cellectis 
 
 Cellectis SA 
 
 
 Celltrion 
 
 Celltrion Inc. and Celltrion Healthcare, Co., Ltd. (collectively) 
 
 
 Citibank 
 
 Citibank N.A. 
 
 
 Developed Markets 
 
 U.S., Western Europe, Japan, Canada, Australia, South Korea, Scandinavian countries, Finland and New Zealand 
 
 
 EEA 
 
 European Economic Area 
 
 
 EGWP 
 
 Employer Group Waiver Plan 
 
 
 EH 
 
 Essential Health 
 
 
 ELT 
 
 Executive Leadership Team 
 
 
 EMA 
 
 European Medicines Agency 
 
 
 Emerging Markets 
 
 Includes, but is not limited to, the following markets: Asia (excluding Japan and South Korea), Latin America, Africa, Eastern Europe, Central Europe, the Middle East and Turkey 
 
 
 EPS 
 
 earnings per share 
 
 
 EU 
 
 European Union 
 
 
 Exchange Act 
 
 Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended 
 
 
 FASB 
 
 Financial Accounting Standards Board 
 
 
 FDA 
 
 U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
 
 
 GAAP 
 
 Generally Accepted Accounting Principles 
 
 
 GHD 
 
 growth hormone deficiency 
 
 
 GIST 
 
 gastrointestinal stromal tumors 
 
 
 GIP 
 
 Global Innovative Pharmaceutical segment 
 
 
 GPD 
 
 Global Product Development organization 
 
 
 GS&Co. 
 
 Goldman, Sachs & Co. 
 
 
 HER 
 
 human epidermal growth factor receptor 
 
 
 HER2- 
 
 human epidermal growth factor receptor 2-negative 
 
 
 hGH-CTP 
 
 human growth hormone 
 
 
 HIS 
 
 Hospira Infusion Systems 
 
 
 HIV 
 
 human immunodeficiency virus 
 
 
 Hisun 
 
 Zhejiang Hisun Pharmaceuticals Co., Ltd. 
 
 
 Hisun Pfizer 
 
 Hisun Pfizer Pharmaceuticals Company Limited 
 
 
 Hospira 
 
 Hospira, Inc. 
 
 
 HR+ 
 
 hormone receptor-positive 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 i 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ICU Medical 
 
 ICU Medical, Inc. 
 
 
 IH 
 
 Innovative Health 
 
 
 InnoPharma 
 
 InnoPharma, Inc. 
 
 
 IPR&D 
 
 in-process research and development 
 
 
 IRC 
 
 Internal Revenue Code 
 
 
 IRS 
 
 U.S. Internal Revenue Service 
 
 
 IV 
 
 intravenous 
 
 
 Janssen 
 
 Janssen Biotech Inc. 
 
 
 King 
 
 King Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 
 
 
 LDL 
 
 low density lipoprotein 
 
 
 LIBOR 
 
 London Interbank Offered Rate 
 
 
 Lilly 
 
 Eli Lilly & Company 
 
 
 LOE 
 
 loss of exclusivity 
 
 
 MCO 
 
 Managed Care Organization 
 
 
 MDV 
 
 multi-dose vial 
 
 
 Medivation 
 
 Medivation, Inc. 
 
 
 Merck 
 
 Merck & Co., Inc. 
 
 
 Moody’s 
 
 Moody’s Investors Service 
 
 
 NAV 
 
 Net asset value 
 
 
 NDA 
 
 new drug application 
 
 
 NovaQuest 
 
 NovaQuest Co-Investment Fund II, L.P. or NovaQuest Co-Investment Fund V, L.P., as applicable 
 
 
 NSCLC 
 
 non-small cell lung cancer 
 
 
 NYSE 
 
 New York Stock Exchange 
 
 
 OPKO 
 
 OPKO Health, Inc. 
 
 
 OTC 
 
 over-the-counter 
 
 
 PBM 
 
 Pharmacy Benefit Manager 
 
 
 PBO 
 
 Projected benefit obligation 
 
 
 PCS 
 
 Pfizer CentreSource 
 
 
 PE 
 
 pulmonary embolism 
 
 
 PGS 
 
 Pfizer Global Supply 
 
 
 Pharmacia 
 
 Pharmacia Corporation 
 
 
 PPS 
 
 Portfolio Performance Shares 
 
 
 PP&E 
 
 Property, plant & equipment 
 
 
 PSAs 
 
 Performance Share Awards 
 
 
 PTUs 
 
 Profit Units 
 
 
 RCC 
 
 renal cell carcinoma 
 
 
 recAP 
 
 recombinant human Alkaline Phosphatase 
 
 
 R&D 
 
 research and development 
 
 
 RPI 
 
 RPI Finance Trust 
 
 
 RSUs 
 
 Restricted Stock Units 
 
 
 Sandoz 
 
 Sandoz, Inc., a division of Novartis AG 
 
 
 SEC 
 
 U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission 
 
 
 SGA 
 
 small for gestational age 
 
 
 S&P 
 
 Standard and Poor’s 
 
 
 Teuto 
 
 Laboratório Teuto Brasileiro S.A. 
 
 
 TSR 
 
 Total Shareholder Return 
 
 
 TSRUs 
 
 Total Shareholder Return Units 
 
 
 U.K. 
 
 United Kingdom 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 United States 
 
 
 VAT 
 
 value added tax 
 
 
 VIE 
 
 Variable interest entity 
 
 
 ViiV 
 
 ViiV Healthcare Limited 
 
 
 VOC 
 
 Global Vaccines, Oncology and Consumer Healthcare segment 
 
 
 WRD 
 
 Worldwide Research and Development 
 
 
 Zoetis 
 
 Zoetis Inc. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ii 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 INTRODUCTION 
 
 See the Glossary of Defined Terms at the beginning of this 2016 Financial Report for terms used throughout this Financial Review. Our Financial Review is provided to assist readers in understanding the results of operations, financial condition and cash flows of Pfizer Inc. (the Company). It should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The discussion in this Financial Review contains forward-looking statements that involve substantial risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, such as those discussed in Part 1, ITEM 1A, “Risk Factors” of our 2016 Form 10-K and in the “Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results”, “Our Operating Environment” and “Our Strategy” sections of this Financial Review. 
 
 The Financial Review is organized as follows: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ● 
 
 Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook 
 
 Beginning on page 2 
 
 
 
 
 This section provides information about the following: Our Business; Our 2016 Performance; Our Operating Environment; The Global Economic Environment, Our Strategy; Our Business Development Initiatives, such as acquisitions, dispositions, licensing and collaborations; and Our Financial Guidance for 2017. 
 
 
 
 
 ● 
 
 Significant Accounting Policies and Application of Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions 
 
 Beginning on page 14 
 
 
 
 
 This section discusses those accounting policies and estimates that we consider important in understanding our consolidated financial statements. For additional discussion of our accounting policies, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 1. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies . 
 
 
 
 
 ● 
 
 Analysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income 
 
 Beginning on page 21 
 
 
 
 
 This section includes a Revenues Overview section as well as the following sub-sections: 
 
 
 
 
 ○ Revenues-Major Products 
 
 Beginning on page 26 
 
 
 
 
 This sub-section provides an overview of several of our biopharmaceutical products. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ○ Product Developments-Biopharmaceutical 
 
 Beginning on page 30 
 
 
 
 
 This sub-section provides an overview of important biopharmaceutical product developments. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ○ Costs and Expenses 
 
 Beginning on page 33 
 
 
 
 
 This sub-section provides a discussion about our costs and expenses. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ○ Provision for Taxes on Income 
 
 Beginning on page 38 
 
 
 
 
 This sub-section provides a discussion of items impacting our tax provisions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ○ Non-GAAP Financial Measure (Adjusted Income) 
 
 Beginning on page 38 
 
 
 
 
 This sub-section provides a discussion of an alternative view of performance used by management. 
 
 
 
 
 ● 
 
 Analysis of Operating Segment Information 
 
 Beginning on page 44 
 
 
 
 
 This section provides a discussion of the performance of each of our operating segments. 
 
 
 
 
 ● 
 
 Analysis of the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 
 
 Beginning on page 51 
 
 
 
 
 This section provides a discussion of changes in certain components of other comprehensive income. 
 
 
 
 
 ● 
 
 Analysis of the Consolidated Balance Sheets 
 
 Beginning on page 51 
 
 
 
 
 This section provides a discussion of changes in certain balance sheet accounts, including Accumulated other comprehensive loss . 
 
 
 
 
 ● 
 
 Analysis of the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
 
 Beginning on page 52 
 
 
 
 
 This section provides an analysis of our consolidated cash flows for the three years ended December 31, 2016. 
 
 
 
 
 ● 
 
 Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources 
 
 Beginning on page 54 
 
 
 
 
 This section provides an analysis of selected measures of our liquidity and of our capital resources as of December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, as well as a discussion of our outstanding debt and other commitments that existed as of December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015. Included in the discussion of outstanding debt is a discussion of the amount of financial capacity available to help fund Pfizer’s future activities. 
 
 
 
 
 ● 
 
 New Accounting Standards 
 
 Beginning on page 59 
 
 
 
 
 This section discusses accounting standards that we have recently adopted, as well as those that recently have been issued, but not yet adopted. 
 
 
 
 
 ● 
 
 Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results 
 
 Beginning on page 61 
 
 
 
 
 This section provides a description of the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in forward-looking statements presented in this Financial Review relating to, among other things, our anticipated operating and financial performance, business plans and prospects, in-line products and product candidates, strategic reviews, capital allocation, business-development plans and plans relating to share repurchases and dividends. Also included in this section are discussions of Financial Risk Management and Contingencies, including legal and tax matters. 
 
 
 Certain amounts in our Financial Review may not add due to rounding. All percentages have been calculated using unrounded amounts. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 1 
 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OVERVIEW OF OUR PERFORMANCE, OPERATING ENVIRONMENT, STRATEGY AND OUTLOOK 
 
 Our Business 
 
 We apply science and our global resources to bring therapies to people that extend and significantly improve their lives through the discovery, development and manufacture of healthcare products. Our global portfolio includes medicines and vaccines, as well as many of the world’s best-known consumer healthcare products. We work across developed and emerging markets to advance wellness, prevention, treatments and cures that challenge the most feared diseases of our time. We collaborate with healthcare providers, governments and local communities to support and expand access to reliable, affordable healthcare around the world. Our revenues are derived from the sale of our products and, to a much lesser extent, from alliance agreements, under which we co-promote products discovered or developed by other companies or us (Alliance revenues). 
 
 We manage our commercial operations through two distinct business segments: Pfizer Innovative Health (IH) and Pfizer Essential Health (EH). Each operating segment has responsibility for its commercial activities and for certain IPR&D projects for new investigational products and additional indications for in-line products that generally have achieved proof-of-concept. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 18A. Segment, Geographic and Other Revenue Information: Segment Information and the “Our Strategy––Commercial Operations” section of this Financial Review below. 
 
 The majority of our revenues come from the manufacture and sale of biopharmaceutical products. The biopharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and highly regulated. As a result, we face a number of industry-specific factors and challenges, which can significantly impact our results. These factors include, among others: the loss or expiration of intellectual property rights and the expiration of co-promotion and licensing rights, healthcare legislation, pipeline productivity, the regulatory environment, pricing and access pressures and competition. We also face challenges as a result of the global economic environment. For additional information about these factors and challenges, see the “Our Operating Environment” and “The Global Economic Environment” sections of this Financial Review and Part I, ITEM 1A, “Risk Factors,” of our 2016 Form 10-K. 
 
 The financial information included in our consolidated financial statements for our subsidiaries operating outside the United States (U.S.) is as of and for the year ended November 30 for each year presented. Pfizer's fiscal year-end for U.S. subsidiaries is as of and for the year ended December 31 for each year presented. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 References to developed and emerging markets in this Financial Review include: 
 
 
 Developed markets 
 
 
 
 U.S., Western Europe, Japan, Canada, Australia, South Korea, Scandinavian countries, Finland and New Zealand 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Emerging markets (include, but are not limited to) 
 
 
 
 Asia (excluding Japan and South Korea), Latin America, Africa, Eastern Europe, Central Europe, the Middle East and Turkey 
 References to operational variances in this Financial Review pertain to period-over-period growth rates that exclude the impact of foreign exchange as well as the negative currency impact related to Venezuela. The operational variances are determined by multiplying or dividing, as appropriate, our current year U.S. dollar results by the current year average foreign exchange rates and then multiplying or dividing, as appropriate, those amounts by the prior-year average foreign exchange rates. Although exchange rate changes are part of our business, they are not within our control. Exchange rate changes, however, can mask positive or negative trends in the business; therefore, we believe presenting operational variances provides useful information to evaluate the results of our business. 
 
 Our significant business development activities include: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 On February 3, 2017, we completed the sale of our global infusion therapy net assets, HIS, to ICU Medical for up to approximately $900 million , composed of cash and contingent cash consideration, ICU Medical common stock and seller financing. Assets and liabilities associated with HIS are presented as held for sale in the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2016. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 On December 22, 2016, which falls in the first fiscal quarter of 2017 for our international operations, we acquired the development and commercialization rights to AstraZeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business, primarily outside the U.S., including the commercialization and development rights to the newly approved EU drug ZaviceftaTM (ceftazidime-avibactam), the marketed agents MerremTM/MeronemTM (meropenem) and ZinforoTM (ceftaroline fosamil), and the clinical development assets ATM-AVI and CXL (ceftaroline fosamil-AVI). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 On September 28, 2016, we acquired Medivation for $81.50 per share. The total fair value of consideration transferred for Medivation was approximately $14.3 billion in cash ( $13.9 billion , net of cash acquired). Of this consideration, approximately $365 million was not paid as of December 31, 2016, and was recorded in Other current liabilities . Commencing from the acquisition date, our financial statements reflect the assets, liabilities, operating results and cash flows of Medivation, and, in accordance with our domestic reporting periods, our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2016 reflect approximately three months of legacy Medivation operations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 On June 24, 2016, we acquired Anacor for $99.25 per share. The total fair value of consideration transferred for Anacor was approximately $4.9 billion in cash ( $4.5 billion , net of cash acquired), plus $698 million debt assumed. Commencing from the acquisition date, our financial statements reflect the assets, liabilities, operating results and cash flows of Anacor, and, in accordance with our domestic reporting periods, our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2016 reflect approximately six months of legacy Anacor operations, which were immaterial. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 On April 6, 2016, we announced that the merger agreement between Pfizer and Allergan entered into on November 22, 2015 was terminated by mutual agreement of the companies. The decision was driven by the actions announced by the U.S. Department of Treasury 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 on April 4, 2016, which the companies concluded qualified as an “Adverse Tax Law Change” under the merger agreement. In connection with the termination of the merger agreement, on April 8, 2016 (which fell into Pfizer’s second fiscal quarter), Pfizer paid Allergan $150 million (pre-tax) for reimbursement of Allergan’s expenses associated with the terminated transaction (see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 4 . Other (Income)/Deductions –– Net ). Pfizer and Allergan also released each other from any and all claims in connection with the merger agreement. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 On September 3, 2015, we acquired Hospira for approximately $16.1 billion in cash ( $15.7 billion , net of cash acquired). Commencing from the acquisition date, our financial statements reflect the assets, liabilities, operating results and cash flows of Hospira. In accordance with our domestic and international reporting periods, our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 reflect four months of legacy Hospira U.S. operations and three months of legacy Hospira international operations. 
 For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 2. Acquisitions, Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Agreements, Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements, Equity-Method Investments and Cost-Method Investment and the “Our Strategy”, “Our Business Development Initiatives”, “Significant Accounting Policies and Application of Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions––Acquisition of Hospira” and “Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives” sections of this Financial Review). 
 Our 2016 Performance 
 
 Revenues––2016 
 
 Revenues in 2016 were $52.8 billion , an increase of 8% compared to 2015 . This reflects an operational increase of 11% , which was partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of 3% . 
 
 Compared to 2015 , international revenues for 2016 were favorably impacted by approximately $100 million as a result of having one more selling day in international markets. In the U.S., there was no difference in selling days in 2016 , compared to 2015 . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following provides an analysis of the 2016 revenue growth: 
 
 
 (BILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2015 Revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 48.9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Acquisition-related growth 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Hospira 
 
 
 
 3.1 
 
 
 
 
 Medivation 
 
 
 
 0.1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Pfizer-standalone 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Operational revenue growth from certain key products, net 
 
 
 
 4.0 
 
 
 
 
 Operational revenue decline due to product losses of exclusivity and the expiry of the collaboration agreement to co-promote Rebif in the U.S. 
 
 
 
 (1.8 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 5.5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Operational Revenues 
 
 
 
 54.3 
 
 
 
 
 Unfavorable impact of foreign exchange 
 
 
 
 (1.5 
 
 ) 
 
 
 2016 Revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 52.8 
 
 
 
 See the “Analysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income –– Revenues –– Overview” section below for more information, including a discussion of key drivers of our revenue performance. 
 
 Income from Continuing Operations Before Provision for Taxes on Income––2016 
 
 Income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income was $8.4 billion in 2016 , compared to $9.0 billion in 2015 , primarily reflecting, among other items, in addition to the operational and foreign exchange impacts for Revenues described above: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 higher Cost of sales (up $2.7 billion ) (see the “Costs and Expenses––Cost of Sales” section of this Financial Review); 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 a $1.7 billion charge related to the write-down of HIS net assets to fair value less estimated costs to sell (see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 2B. Acquisitions, Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Agreements, Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements, Equity-Method Investments and Cost-Method Investment : Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale) ; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 higher asset impairments (up $629 million ) (see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 4 . Other ( Income)/Deductions –– Net ); 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 higher Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs (up $571 million ) (see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 3 . Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives ); 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 higher Amortization of intangible assets (up $328 million ) (see the “Costs and Expenses––Amortization of Intangible Assets” section of this Financial Review); and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 higher Research and development expenses (up $182 million ) (see the “Costs and Expenses––Research and Development Expenses” section of this Financial Review); 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 3 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the non-recurrence of a foreign currency loss ( $806 million ) related to Venezuela in 2015 (see the Notes to Financial Statements–– Note 4 . Other (Income)/Deductions –– Net ); 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 lower charges for legal matters (down $466 million ) (see the Notes to Financial Statements–– Note 4 . Other (Income)/Deductions –– Net ); and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 lower Other, net deductions (down $318 million ) (see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 4 . Other ( Income)/Deductions –– Net ). 
 For information on our tax provision and effective tax rate see the “Provision for Taxes on Income” section of the Financial Review and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 5 . Tax Matters. 
 Our Operating Environment 
 
 Industry-Specific Challenges 
 
 Intellectual Property Rights and Collaboration/Licensing Rights 
 
 The loss or expiration of intellectual property rights and the expiration of co-promotion and licensing rights can have a significant adverse effect on our revenues. Many of our branded products have multiple patents that expire at varying dates, thereby strengthening our overall patent protection. However, once patent protection has expired or has been lost prior to the expiration date as a result of a legal challenge, we lose exclusivity on these products, and generic pharmaceutical manufacturers generally produce similar products and sell them for a lower price. The date at which generic competition commences may be different from the date that the patent or regulatory exclusivity expires. However, when generic competition does commence, the resulting price competition can substantially decrease our revenues for the impacted products, often in a very short period of time. 
 
 Our biotechnology products, including BeneFIX, ReFacto, Xyntha and Enbrel (we market Enbrel outside the U.S. and Canada), may face in the future, or already face, competition from biosimilars (also referred to as follow-on biologics). If competitors are able to obtain marketing approval for biosimilars that reference our biotechnology products, our biotechnology products may become subject to competition from these biosimilars, with attendant competitive pressure, and price reductions could follow. Expiration or successful challenge of applicable patent rights could trigger this competition, assuming any relevant exclusivity period has expired. However, biosimilar manufacturing is complex. At least initially upon approval of a biosimilar competitor, biosimilar competition with respect to biologics may not be as significant as generic competition with respect to small molecule drugs. 
 
 We have lost exclusivity for a number of our products in certain markets and we have lost collaboration rights with respect to a number of our alliance products in certain markets, and we expect certain products to face significantly increased generic competition over the next few years. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 4 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Specifically: 
 
 Recent Losses and Expected Losses of Product Exclusivity 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following table provides information about certain of our products recently experiencing, or expected to experience in 2017, patent expirations or loss of regulatory exclusivity in the U.S., Europe or Japan, showing, by product, the key dates or expected key dates, the markets impacted and the revenues associated with those products in those markets: 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Product Revenues in Markets Impacted 
 
 
 Products 
 
 
 
 Key Dates (a) 
 
 
 
 Markets Impacted 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 2014 
 
 
 
 
 Viagra (b) 
 
 
 
 June 2013 May 2014 December 2017 
 
 
 
 Major European markets Japan U.S. 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,217 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,338 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,260 
 
 
 
 
 Rapamune 
 
 
 
 January 2014 June 2015 
 
 
 
 U.S. Major European markets 
 
 
 
 115 
 
 
 
 
 
 129 
 
 
 
 
 
 254 
 
 
 
 
 Inspra (c) 
 
 
 
 March 2014 
 July 2015 
 
 
 
 Major European markets 
 Japan 
 
 
 
 97 
 
 
 
 
 
 118 
 
 
 
 
 
 208 
 
 
 
 
 Lyrica (d) 
 
 
 
 July 2014 
 
 
 
 Major European markets 
 
 
 
 692 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,048 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,634 
 
 
 
 
 Celebrex (e) 
 
 
 
 November 2014 
 December 2014 
 
 
 
 Major European markets 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 148 
 
 
 
 
 
 189 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,872 
 
 
 
 
 Zyvox (f) 
 
 
 
 August 2014 
 First half of 2015 
 January 2016 
 
 
 
 Japan 
 U.S. 
 Major European markets 
 
 
 
 235 
 
 
 
 
 
 644 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,116 
 
 
 
 
 Enbrel (g) 
 
 
 
 August 2015 
 September 2015 
 
 
 
 Major European markets 
 Japan 
 
 
 
 2,146 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,402 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,832 
 
 
 
 
 Relpax 
 
 
 
 December 2015 
 December 2016 
 
 
 
 Major European markets 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 263 
 
 
 
 
 
 295 
 
 
 
 
 
 317 
 
 
 
 
 Vfend 
 
 
 
 July 2016 
 January 2016 
 
 
 
 Major European markets 
 Japan 
 
 
 
 299 
 
 
 
 
 
 349 
 
 
 
 
 
 403 
 
 
 
 
 Tygacil 
 
 
 
 April 2016 
 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 110 
 
 
 
 
 
 112 
 
 
 
 
 Pristiq (h) 
 
 
 
 March 2017 
 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 578 
 
 
 
 
 
 553 
 
 
 
 
 
 553 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 Unless stated otherwise, “Key Dates” indicate patent-based expiration dates. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 As a result of a patent litigation settlement, Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. will be allowed to launch a generic version of Viagra in the U.S. in December 2017, or earlier under certain circumstances. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 Generic versions of Inspra became available in major European markets following the March 2014 expiry of regulatory exclusivity for Inspra in most major European markets, allowing generic companies to submit applications for marketing authorizations for their generic products. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) 
 
 Generic versions of Lyrica became available in major European markets following the July 2014 expiry of regulatory exclusivity for Lyrica in the EU, allowing generic companies to submit applications for marketing authorizations for their generic products. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (e) 
 
 In December 2014, generic versions of Celebrex became available pursuant to settlement agreements with several generic manufacturers. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (f) 
 
 Pursuant to terms of a settlement agreement, certain formulations of Zyvox became subject to generic competition in the U.S. in January 2015. Other formulations of Zyvox became subject to generic competition in the U.S. in the first half of 2015. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (g) 
 
 In January 2016, an etanercept biosimilar referencing Enbrel was approved by the European Commission. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (h) 
 
 As a result of a patent litigation settlement with several generic manufacturers, generic versions of Pristiq will be allowed to launch in the U.S. in March 2017. 
 
 Recent Losses of Collaboration Rights 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following table provides information about certain of our alliance revenue products that have experienced losses of collaboration rights, showing, by product, the date of the loss of the collaboration rights, the markets impacted and the alliance revenues associated with those products in those markets: 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Alliance Revenues in 
 Markets Impacted 
 
 
 Products 
 
 
 
 Date of Loss of 
 Collaboration Rights 
 
 
 
 Markets Impacted 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 2014 
 
 
 
 
 Spiriva (a) 
 
 
 
 April 2014 (U.S.), between 2012 and 2016 (Japan, certain European countries, Australia, Canada and South Korea) 
 
 
 
 U.S., Japan, certain European countries, Australia, Canada and South Korea 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 6 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 27 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 168 
 
 
 
 
 Rebif (b) 
 
 
 
 End of 2015 
 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 371 
 
 
 
 
 
 415 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 Our collaboration with Boehringer Ingelheim for Spiriva expired on a country-by-country basis between 2012 and 2016. On April 29, 2014, our alliance in the U.S. came to an end. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 Our collaboration agreement with EMD Serono Inc. to co-promote Rebif in the U.S. expired at the end of 2015. 
 
 In addition, we expect to lose exclusivity for various other products in various markets over the next few years, including among others, the expiration of the basic product patent for Lyrica in the U.S. in December 2018. For additional information, see the “Patents and Other Intellectual Property Rights” section in Part I, ITEM 1, “Business”, of our 2016 Form 10-K. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 5 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Our financial results in 2016 and our 2017 financial guidance, respectively, reflect the impact and projected impact of the loss of exclusivity of various products and the expiration of certain alliance product contract rights discussed above. For additional information about our 2017 financial guidance, see the “Our Financial Guidance for 2017 ” section of this Financial Review. 
 
 We will continue to aggressively defend our patent rights whenever we deem appropriate. For more detailed information about our significant products, see the discussion in the “Revenues––Major Products” and “Revenues––Selected Product Descriptions” sections of this Financial Review. For a discussion of certain recent developments with respect to patent litigation, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 17A1. Commitments and Contingencies: Legal Proceedings –– Patent Litigation . 
 
 Regulatory Environment/Pricing and Access––U.S. Healthcare Legislation 
 
 In March 2010, the ACA was enacted in the U.S. For additional information, see the “Government Regulation and Price Constraints” section in Part I, ITEM 1, “Business”, of our 2016 Form 10-K. 
 Impacts on our 2016 Results 
 
 We recorded the following amounts in 2016 as a result of the U.S. Healthcare Legislation: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 $410 million recorded as a reduction to Revenues , related to the Medicare “coverage gap” discount provision; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 $312 million recorded in Selling, informational and administrative expenses , related to the fee payable to the federal government (which is not deductible for U.S. income tax purposes) based on our prior-calendar-year share relative to other companies of branded prescription drug sales to specified government programs. 
 Impacts on our 2015 Results 
 
 We recorded the following amounts in 2015 as a result of the U.S. Healthcare Legislation: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 $399 million recorded as a reduction to Revenues , related to the Medicare “coverage gap” discount provision; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 $251 million recorded in Selling, informational and administrative expenses , related to the fee payable to the federal government (which is not deductible for U.S. income tax purposes) based on our prior-calendar-year share relative to other companies of branded prescription drug sales to specified government programs. The decrease in the impact of the U.S. Healthcare Legislation on Selling, informational and administrative expenses in 2015 compared to 2014 was primarily a result of the non-recurrence of the $215 million charge in 2014 to account for an additional year of the non-tax deductible Branded Prescription Drug Fee, partially offset by a lower favorable true-up in 2015, compared to the favorable true-up in 2014, associated with the final invoice for the respective prior-calendar year received from the federal government, which reflected a lower share than that of the initial invoice. 
 Impacts on our 2014 Results 
 
 We recorded the following amounts in 2014 as a result of the U.S. Healthcare Legislation: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 $382 million recorded as a reduction to Revenues , related to the Medicare “coverage gap” discount provision; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 $362 million recorded in Selling, informational and administrative expenses , related to the fee payable to the federal government. 2014 included a $215 million charge to account for an additional year of the non-tax deductible Branded Prescription Drug Fee in accordance with final regulations issued in the third quarter of 2014 by the IRS. The amount in 2014 also reflected a favorable true-up associated with the final 2013 invoice received from the federal government, which reflected a lower share than that of the initial 2013 invoice. 
 The final regulations issued by the IRS did not change the payment schedule for the Branded Prescription Drug Fee; accordingly there was no cash flow impact in 2014 from the $215 million charge. 
 
 Regulatory Environment/Pricing and Access––Government and Other Payer Group Pressures 
 
 Governments, MCOs and other payer groups continue to seek increasing discounts on our products through a variety of means, such as leveraging their purchasing power, implementing price controls, and demanding price cuts (directly or by rebate actions). In Europe, Japan, China, Canada, South Korea and some other international markets, governments provide healthcare at low direct cost to patients and regulate pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system, particularly under recent global economic pressures. In the U.S., a primary government activity with implications for pharmaceutical pricing is deficit reduction. Any significant spending reductions affecting Medicare, Medicaid or other publicly funded or subsidized health programs that may be implemented, and/or any significant additional taxes or fees that may be imposed on us, as part of any broad deficit-reduction effort could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Significant Medicare reductions could also result if Congress proceeds with certain proposals to convert the Medicare fee-for-service program into a premium support program, or it chooses to implement the recommendations made annually by the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission, which are primarily intended to extend the fiscal solvency of the Medicare program. 
 Consolidation among MCOs has increased the negotiating power of MCOs and other private insurers. Private third-party insurers, as well as governments, increasingly employ formularies to control costs by negotiating discounted prices in exchange for formulary inclusion. Failure to obtain or maintain timely or adequate pricing or formulary placement for our products or obtaining such pricing or placement at unfavorable pricing could adversely impact revenue. 
 
 Additionally, efforts by government officials or legislators to implement measures to regulate prices or payment for pharmaceutical products could adversely affect our business if implemented. There has recently been considerable public and government scrutiny of pharmaceutical pricing and proposals to address the perceived high cost of pharmaceuticals. We believe medicines are the most efficient and effective use of 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 6 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 healthcare dollars based on the value they deliver to the overall healthcare system. We continue to work with stakeholders to ensure access to medicines within an efficient and affordable healthcare system. 
 
 Adoption of other new legislation at the federal or state level could further affect demand for, or pricing of, our products. In 2017, we may face uncertainties because there likely will be federal legislative and administrative efforts to repeal, substantially modify or invalidate some or all of the provisions of the ACA. Although the revenues generated for Pfizer by the Medicaid expansion and health insurance exchanges under the ACA have been exceeded by the new rebates, discounts, and taxes, there is no assurance that repeal or replacement of the ACA will not adversely affect our business and financial results, particularly if replacement legislation reduces incentives for employer-sponsored insurance coverage, and we cannot predict how future federal or state legislative or administrative changes relating to healthcare reform will affect our business. We will continue to actively work with law makers and advocate for solutions that effectively improve patient health outcomes and lower costs to the healthcare system. 
 
 The potential for additional pricing and access pressures in the commercial sector continues to be significant. Some employers, seeking to avoid the tax on high-cost health insurance in the ACA to be imposed in 2020, are already scaling back healthcare benefits and an increasing number are implementing high deductible benefit designs. This is a trend that is likely to continue, especially if proposals to limit the tax exclusion for employer sponsored health insurance ultimately become law. Private third-party payers, such as health plans, increasingly challenge pharmaceutical and medical device product pricing, which could result in lower prices, lower reimbursement rates and a reduction in demand for our products. Pricing pressures for our products may occur as a result of highly competitive insurance markets. Healthcare provider purchasers, directly or through group purchasing organizations, are seeking enhanced discounts or implementing more rigorous bidding or purchasing review processes. 
 
 Overall, there is increasing pressure on U.S. providers to deliver healthcare at a lower cost and to ensure that those expenditures deliver demonstrated value in terms of health outcomes. Longer term, we are seeing a shift in focus away from fee-for-service payments towards outcomes-based payments and risk-sharing arrangements that reward providers for cost reductions. These new payment models can, at times, lead to lower prices for, and restricted access to, new medicines. At the same time, these models can also expand utilization by encouraging physicians to screen, diagnose and focus on outcomes. 
 
 Outside the U.S., governments, including the different EU Member States, may use a variety of cost-containment measures for our pharmaceutical products, including price cuts, mandatory rebates, value-based pricing, and international reference pricing (i.e., the practice of many countries linking their regulated medicine prices to those of other countries). This international patchwork of price regulation and differing economic conditions and assessments of value across countries has led to different prices in different countries and some third-party trade in our products between countries. 
 
 In particular, international reference pricing adds to the regional impact of price cuts in individual countries and hinders patient access and innovation. Price variations, exacerbated by international reference pricing systems, also have resulted from exchange rate fluctuations. The downward pricing pressure resulting from this dynamic can be expected to continue as a result of reforms to international reference pricing policies and measures targeting pharmaceuticals in some European countries. 
 
 In addition, several important multilateral organizations, such as the United Nations (UN) and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), are increasing policy pressures and scrutiny of international pharmaceutical pricing through issuing reports and policy recommendations (e.g., 2016 UN High Level Panel Report on Access to Medicines and 2017 OECD Report on New Health Technologies –– Managing Access, Value and Sustainability ). Government adoption of these recommendations may lead to additional pricing pressures. 
 
 In response to the evolving U.S. and global healthcare spending landscape, we are continuing to work with health authorities, health technology assessment and quality measurement bodies and major U.S. payers throughout the product-development process to better understand how these entities value our compounds and products. Further, we are seeking to develop stronger internal capabilities focused on demonstrating the value of the medicines that we discover or develop, register and manufacture, by recognizing patterns of usage of our medicines and competitor medicines along with patterns of healthcare costs. 
 
 Regulatory Environment––Pipeline Productivity 
 
 The discovery and development of safe, effective new products, as well as the development of additional uses for existing products, are necessary for the continued strength of our businesses. We have encountered increasing regulatory scrutiny of drug safety and efficacy, even as we continue to gather safety and other data on our products, before and after the products have been launched. Our product lines must be replenished over time in order to offset revenue losses when products lose their market exclusivity, as well as to provide for earnings growth. We devote considerable resources to R&D activities. These activities involve a high degree of risk and cost and may take many years, and with respect to any specific R&D project, there can be no assurance that the development of any particular product candidate or new indication for an in-line product will achieve the desired clinical endpoints and safety profile, will be approved by regulators or will be successful commercially. 
 
 During the development of a product, we conduct clinical trials to provide data on the drug’s safety and efficacy to support the evaluation of its overall benefit-risk profile for a particular patient population. In addition, after a product has been approved and launched, we continue to monitor its safety as long as it is available to patients, and post-marketing trials may be conducted, including trials requested by regulators and trials that we do voluntarily to gain additional medical knowledge. For the entire life of the product, we collect safety data and report potential problems to the FDA and other regulatory authorities. The FDA and regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions may evaluate potential safety concerns related to a product or a class of products and take regulatory actions in response, such as updating a product’s labeling, restricting the use of a product, communicating new safety information to the public, or, in rare cases, removing a product from the market. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 7 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Competition 
 
 Many of our prescription pharmaceutical products face competition in the form of branded or generic drugs or biosimilars that treat similar diseases or indications. For additional information, see the “Competition” section in Part I, ITEM 1, “Business”, of our 2016 Form 10-K. 
 The Global Economic Environment 
 
 In addition to the industry-specific factors discussed above, we, like other businesses, are exposed to the economic cycle, which impacts our biopharmaceutical operations globally. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Governments, corporations, and insurance companies, which provide insurance benefits to patients, have implemented increases in cost-sharing and restrictions on access to medicines, potentially causing patients to switch to generic products, delay treatments, skip doses or use less effective treatments. Government financing pressures can lead to negative pricing pressure in various markets where governments take an active role in setting prices, access criteria (e.g., through public or private health technology assessments), or other means of cost control. Examples include Europe, Japan, China, Canada, South Korea and a number of other international markets. The U.S. continues to maintain competitive insurance markets, but has also seen significant increases in patient cost-sharing and growing government influence as government programs continue to grow as a source of coverage. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 We continue to monitor developments regarding government and government agency receivables in several European markets, including Greece, where economic conditions remain challenging and uncertain. For further information about our Accounts Receivable , see the “Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources” section of this Financial Review. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Significant portions of our revenues and earnings, as well as our substantial international net assets, are exposed to changes in foreign exchange rates. We seek to manage our foreign exchange risk in part through operational means, including managing same-currency revenues in relation to same-currency costs and same-currency assets in relation to same-currency liabilities. Depending on market conditions, foreign exchange risk also is managed through the use of derivative financial instruments and foreign currency debt. As we operate in multiple foreign currencies, including the euro, the Japanese yen, the Chinese renminbi, the U.K. pound, the Canadian dollar and approximately 100 other currencies, changes in those currencies relative to the U.S. dollar will impact our revenues and expenses. If the U.S. dollar were to weaken against another currency, assuming all other variables remained constant, our revenues would increase, having a positive impact on earnings, and our overall expenses would increase, having a negative impact on earnings. Conversely, if the U.S. dollar were to strengthen against another currency, assuming all other variables remained constant, our revenues would decrease, having a negative impact on earnings, and our overall expenses would decrease, having a positive impact on earnings. Therefore, significant changes in foreign exchange rates, including those changes resulting from the volatility following the U.K. referendum in which voters approved the exit from the EU, can impact our results and our financial guidance. 
 The impact of possible currency devaluations in countries experiencing high inflation rates or significant exchange fluctuations, including Venezuela and more recently Egypt, can impact our results and financial guidance. In the fourth quarter of 2015, we recorded a foreign currency loss of $806 million and an inventory impairment charge of $72 million related to conditions in Venezuela. For further information about our exposure to foreign currency risk, see the “Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources” and the “Our Financial Guidance for 2017 ” sections of this Financial Review. For further information about our foreign currency losses related to Venezuela, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 4 . Other (Income)/Deductions –– Net. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 In June 2016, the U.K. electorate voted in a referendum to leave the EU, which is commonly referred to as “Brexit”. The U.K. government has not formally notified the European Council of their intention to leave the EU. In January 2017, the U.K. Parliament voted in favor of legislation to give the Prime Minister the power to trigger Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty to begin the two-year negotiation process establishing the terms of the exit and outlining the future relationship between the U.K. and the EU. The U.K. Prime Minister has said the negotiations are expected to begin at the end of March 2017. This process is expected to be highly complex, and, in January 2017, the Prime Minister announced a 12-point plan of negotiating objectives and confirmed that the U.K. government will not seek continued membership of the EU single market. The end result of these negotiations may pose certain implications to our research, commercial and general business operations in the U.K. and the EU. 
 We generated approximately 2% of our worldwide revenues from the U.K. in 2016. However, except for the foreign currency exchange impact from the weakening U.K. pound relative to the U.S. dollar to date, there are no other immediate-term impacts to our business as there has not yet been a formal change in the relationship between the U.K. and the EU. In addition, because of the significant uncertainties associated with the negotiation process, any potential long-term impacts are not currently determinable. 
 
 Pfizer maintains a strong financial position while operating in a complex global environment. Due to our significant operating cash flows, financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we continue to believe that we have, and will maintain, the ability to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future. Our long-term debt is rated high quality by both S&P and Moody’s. As market conditions change, we continue to monitor our liquidity position. We have taken and will continue to take a conservative approach to our financial investments. Both short-term and long-term investments consist primarily of high-quality, highly liquid, well-diversified, available-for-sale debt securities. For further discussion of our financial condition and credit ratings, see the “Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources” section of this Financial Review. 
 
 These and other industry-wide factors that may affect our businesses should be considered along with information presented in the “Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results” section of this Financial Review and in Part I, ITEM 1A, “Risk Factors,” of our 2016 Form 10-K. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 8 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Our Strategy 
 
 We believe that our medicines provide significant value for both healthcare providers and patients, not only from the improved treatment of diseases but also from a reduction in other healthcare costs, such as emergency room or hospitalization costs, as well as improvements in health, wellness and productivity. We continue to actively engage in dialogues about the value of our medicines and how we can best work with patients, physicians and payers to prevent and treat disease and improve outcomes. We continue to work within the current legal and pricing structures, as well as continue to review our pricing arrangements and contracting methods with payers, to maximize patient access and minimize any adverse impact on our revenues. We remain firmly committed to fulfilling our company’s purpose of innovating to bring therapies to patients that extend and significantly improve their lives. By doing so, we expect to create value for the patients we serve and for our shareholders. 
 
 Commercial Operations 
 
 We manage our commercial operations through two distinct business segments: Pfizer Innovative Health (IH) and Pfizer Essential Health (EH), which was previously known as Established Products. Beginning in the second quarter of 2016, we reorganized our operating segments to reflect that we now manage our innovative pharmaceutical and consumer healthcare operations as one business segment, IH. From the beginning of our fiscal year 2014 until the second quarter of 2016, these operations were managed as two business segments: the GIP segment and the VOC segment. We have revised prior-period information to reflect the reorganization. The IH and EH operating segments are each led by a single manager. Each operating segment has responsibility for its commercial activities and for certain IPR&D projects for new investigational products and additional indications for in-line products that generally have achieved proof-of-concept. Each business has a geographic footprint across developed and emerging markets. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Some additional information about our business segments follows: 
 
 
 IH Segment 
 
 
 
 EH Segment 
 
 
 IH focuses on developing and commercializing novel, value-creating medicines and vaccines that significantly improve patients’ lives, as well as products for consumer healthcare. 
 Key therapeutic areas include internal medicine, vaccines, oncology, inflammation & immunology, rare diseases and consumer healthcare. 
 
 
 
 EH includes legacy brands that have lost or will soon lose market exclusivity in both developed and emerging markets, branded generics, generic sterile injectable products, biosimilars and, through February 2, 2017, infusion systems. EH also includes an R&D organization, as well as our contract manufacturing business. 
 
 
 
 Leading brands include: 
 - Prevnar 13 
 - Xeljanz 
 - Eliquis 
 - Lyrica (U.S., Japan and certain other markets) 
 - Enbrel (outside the U.S. and Canada) 
 - Viagra (U.S. and Canada) 
 - Ibrance 
 - Xtandi 
 - Several OTC consumer products (e.g., Advil and Centrum ) 
 
 
 
 
 Leading brands include: 
 - Lipitor 
 - Premarin family 
 - Norvasc 
 - Lyrica (Europe, Russia, Turkey, Israel and Central Asia countries) 
 - Celebrex 
 - Pristiq 
 - Several sterile injectable products 
 
 We expect that the IH biopharmaceutical portfolio of innovative, largely patent-protected, in-line and newly launched products will be sustained by ongoing investments to develop promising assets and targeted business development in areas of focus to help ensure a pipeline of highly-differentiated product candidates in areas of unmet medical need. The assets managed by IH are science-driven, highly differentiated and generally require a high-level of engagement with healthcare providers and consumers. 
 EH is expected to generate strong consistent cash flow by providing patients around the world with access to effective, lower-cost, high-value treatments. EH leverages our biologic development, regulatory and manufacturing expertise to seek to advance its biosimilar development portfolio. Additionally, EH leverages capabilities in formulation development and manufacturing expertise to help advance its generic sterile injectables portfolio. EH may also engage in targeted business development to further enable its commercial strategies. 
 The following change in 2016 impacted IH: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 In connection with the formation in early 2016 of the GPD organization, a new unified center for late-stage development for our innovative products, which is generally responsible for the clinical development of assets that are in clinical trials for our WRD and Innovative portfolios, certain development-related functions transferred from IH to GPD. 
 The following changes in 2016 impacted EH: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Beginning in 2016, our contract manufacturing business, Pfizer CentreOne, is part of EH. Pfizer CentreOne consists of (i) the revenues and expenses of legacy Pfizer's contract manufacturing and active pharmaceutical ingredient sales operation (previously known as Pfizer CentreSource or PCS), including the revenues and expenses related to our manufacturing and supply agreements with Zoetis, which prior to 2016 was managed outside EH as part of PGS and previously reported in “Other Unallocated” costs; and (ii) the revenues and expenses of legacy Hospira's One-2-One sterile injectables contract manufacturing operation, which has been included in EH since we acquired Hospira on September 3, 2015. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 In connection with the formation of a new EH R&D organization effective in the first quarter of 2016, certain functions transferred from Pfizer’s WRD organization to the new EH R&D organization. The new R&D organization within EH expects to develop potential new sterile injectable drugs and therapeutic solutions, as well as biosimilars. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 9 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 In September 2016, we announced our decision to maintain our current business structure and not pursue a split into two separate publicly-traded companies at that time. Following this decision, we will continue to operate two distinct businesses, each with a focus on our strategic priorities to grow and increase operational efficiency. For IH, this means a continued focus on R&D productivity and pipeline strength while maximizing the value of our recently launched brands and in-line portfolio. Our recent acquisitions of Anacor and Medivation expanded our pipeline in the high priority therapeutic areas of inflammation and immunology and oncology. For EH, we will continue to invest in growth drivers and manage the portfolio to extract additional value while seeking opportunities for operating efficiencies. This strategy includes active management of our portfolio; maximizing growth of core product segments; acquisitions to strengthen core areas of our portfolio further, such as our recent acquisition of AstraZeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business; and divestitures to increase focus on our core strengths. In line with this strategy, on February 3, 2017, we completed the sale of Pfizer’s global infusion therapy net assets, representing the infusion systems net assets that we acquired as part of the Hospira transaction, HIS, to ICU Medical, a global device manufacturer. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 2B. Acquisitions, Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Agreements, Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements, Equity-Method Investments and Cost-Method Investment : Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale. 
 For additional information about our operating structure, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 18A. Segment, Geographic and Other Revenue Information: Segment Information. 
 For additional information about the 2016 performance of each of our operating segments, see the “Analysis of Operating Segment Information” section of this Financial Review. 
 Research and Development Operations 
 
 We continue to strengthen our global R&D organization and pursue strategies intended to improve innovation and overall productivity in R&D to achieve a sustainable pipeline that will deliver value in the near term and over time. Our R&D priorities include delivering a pipeline of differentiated therapies and vaccines with the greatest medical and commercial promise, innovating new capabilities that can position Pfizer for long-term leadership and creating new models for biomedical collaboration that will expedite the pace of innovation and productivity. To that end, our research primarily focuses on: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Biosimilars; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Inflammation and Immunology; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Metabolic Disease and Cardiovascular Risks; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Neuroscience; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Oncology; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Rare Diseases; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Vaccines. 
 While a significant portion of R&D is done internally, we also seek out promising chemical and biological lead molecules and innovative technologies developed by third parties to incorporate into our discovery and development processes or projects, as well as our product lines, by entering into collaborations, alliance and license agreements with other companies, as well as leveraging acquisitions and equity- or debt-based investments. These agreements enable us to co-develop, license or acquire promising compounds, technologies or capabilities. We also enter into agreements pursuant to which a third party agrees to fund a portion of the development costs of one of our pipeline products in exchange for rights to receive potential milestone payments, revenue sharing payments, profit sharing payments and/or royalties. Collaboration, alliance, license and funding agreements and equity- or debt-based investments allow us to share risk and cost and to access external scientific and technological expertise, and enable us to advance our own products as well as in-licensed or acquired products. 
 
 In early 2016, we formed the GPD organization, a new, unified center for late-stage development for our innovative products. GPD is expected to enable more efficient and effective development and enhance our ability to accelerate and progress assets through our pipeline. GPD combines certain previously separate development-related functions from the IH business and the WRD organization to achieve a development capability that is expected to deliver high-quality, efficient, and well-executed clinical programs by enabling greater speed, greater cost efficiencies, and reduced complexity across our development portfolio. 
 
 For additional information about R&D by operating segment, see the “Analysis of Operating Segment Information” section of this Financial Review. For additional information about our pending new drug applications and supplemental filings, see the “Analysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income––Product Developments––Biopharmaceutical” section of this Financial Review. For additional information about recent transactions and strategic investments that we believe have the potential to advance our pipeline, see the “Our Strategy––Our Business Development Initiatives” section of this Financial Review. 
 
 Intellectual Property Rights 
 We continue to aggressively defend our patent rights against increasingly aggressive infringement whenever appropriate, and we will continue to support efforts that strengthen worldwide recognition of patent rights while taking necessary steps to ensure appropriate patient access. In addition, we will continue to employ innovative approaches designed to prevent counterfeit pharmaceuticals from entering the supply chain and to achieve greater control over the distribution of our products, and we will continue to participate in the generics market for our products, whenever appropriate, once they lose exclusivity. Also, the pursuit of valid business opportunities may require us to challenge intellectual property rights held by other companies that we believe were improperly granted. Such challenges may include negotiation and litigation, which may not be successful. For additional information about our current efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 17A1. Commitments and Contingencies: Legal Proceedings –– Patent Litigation. For information on risks related to patent protection and intellectual property claims by third parties, see "Risks Related to Intellectual Property" in Part I, ITEM 1A, “Risk Factors” in our 2016 Form 10-K. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 10 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Capital Allocation and Expense Management 
 We seek to maintain a strong balance sheet and robust liquidity so that we continue to have the financial resources necessary to take advantage of prudent commercial, research and business development opportunities and to directly enhance shareholder value through share repurchases and dividends. For additional information about our financial condition, liquidity, capital resources, share repurchases (including accelerated share repurchases) and dividends, see the “Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources” section of this Financial Review. For additional information about our recent business development activities, see the “Our Strategy––Our Business Development Initiatives” section of this Financial Review. 
 On December 12, 2016 , our Board of Directors declared a first-quarter 2017 dividend of $0.32 per share, an increase from the $0.30 per-share quarterly dividend paid during 2016 . For additional information, see the “Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources” section of this Financial Review and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 12. Equity. 
 
 We remain focused on achieving an appropriate cost structure for the Company. For additional information about our cost-reduction and productivity initiatives, see the “Costs and Expenses––Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives” section of this Financial Review and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 3 . Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives. 
 
 Our Business Development Initiatives 
 
 We are committed to capitalizing on growth opportunities by advancing our own pipeline and maximizing the value of our in-line products, as well as through various forms of business development, which can include alliances, licenses, joint ventures, collaborations, equity- or debt-based investments, dispositions, mergers and acquisitions. We view our business development activity as an enabler of our strategies, and we seek to generate earnings growth and enhance shareholder value by pursuing a disciplined, strategic and financial approach to evaluating business development opportunities. We continue to evaluate business development transactions that have the potential to strengthen one or both of our businesses and their capabilities, such as our acquisitions of Hospira, Medivation, Anacor and AstraZeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business, as well as collaborations, and alliance and license agreements with other companies, including our collaborations with Cellectis, OPKO and Merck KGaA. We assess our businesses, assets and scientific capabilities/portfolio as part of our regular, ongoing portfolio review process and also continue to consider business development activities that will advance our businesses. For additional information on our business development activities, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 2. Acquisitions, Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Agreements, Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements, Equity-Method Investments and Cost-Method Investment and the “Significant Accounting Policies and Application of Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions––Acquisition of Hospira” section of this Financial Review. 
 The more significant recent transactions and events are described below: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Sale of Hospira Infusion Systems Net Assets to ICU Medical, Inc. ––On February 3, 2017, we completed the sale of our global infusion therapy net assets, HIS, to ICU Medical for up to approximately $900 million , composed of cash and contingent cash consideration, ICU Medical common stock and seller financing. HIS includes IV pumps, solutions and devices. Under the terms of the agreement, we received 3.2 million newly issued shares of ICU Medical common stock, which we valued at approximately $430 million (based upon the closing price of ICU Medical common stock on the closing date less a discount for lack of marketability), a promissory note in the amount of $75 million and net cash of approximately $200 million before customary adjustments for net working capital. In addition, we are entitled to receive a contingent amount of up to an additional $225 million in cash based on ICU Medical’s achievement of certain cumulative performance targets for the combined company through December 31, 2019. After receipt of the ICU Medical shares, we own approximately 16.4% of ICU Medical as of the closing date. We have agreed to certain restrictions on transfer of our ICU Medical shares for 18 months. The promissory note from ICU Medical has a term of three years and bears interest at LIBOR plus 2.25% for the first year and LIBOR plus 2.50% for the second and third years. At December 31, 2016, we determined that the carrying value of the HIS net assets held for sale exceeded their fair value less estimated costs to sell, resulting in a pre-tax impairment charge of $1.7 billion which is included in Other (income)/deductions––net (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ––Note 4. Other (Income)/Deductions––Net ) . The difference between the carrying value and fair value of the HIS net assets held for sale and the resulting pre-tax impairment may change when determined as of the February 3, 2017 closing date as a result of several factors, such as changes in the carrying value of the HIS net assets between December 31, 2016 and the closing date. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Acquisition of AstraZeneca’s Anti-Infectives Business (EH) ––On December 22, 2016, which falls in the first fiscal quarter of 2017 for our international operations, we acquired the development and commercialization rights to AstraZeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives business, primarily outside the U.S., including the commercialization and development rights to the newly approved EU drug ZaviceftaTM (ceftazidime-avibactam), the marketed agents MerremTM/MeronemTM (meropenem) and ZinforoTM (ceftaroline fosamil), and the clinical development assets ATM-AVI and CXL (ceftaroline fosamil-AVI). Under the terms of the agreement, Pfizer made an upfront payment of approximately $550 million to AstraZeneca upon the close of the transaction and will make a deferred payment of $175 million in January 2019. In addition, AstraZeneca is eligible to receive up to $250 million in milestone payments, up to $600 million in sales-related payments, as well as tiered royalties on sales of ZaviceftaTM and ATM-AVI in certain markets. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Acquisition of Medivation, Inc. (IH) ––On September 28, 2016, we acquired Medivation for $81.50 per share. The total fair value of consideration transferred for Medivation was approximately $14.3 billion in cash ( $13.9 billion , net of cash acquired). Medivation’s portfolio includes Xtandi (enzalutamide), an androgen receptor inhibitor that blocks multiple steps in the androgen receptor signaling pathway within tumor cells. Xtandi is being developed and commercialized through a collaboration between Pfizer and Astellas. Astellas has exclusive commercialization rights for Xtandi outside the U.S. In addition, Medivation has two development-stage oncology assets in its pipeline: talazoparib, which is currently in a Phase 3 study for the treatment of BRCA-mutated breast cancer, and pidilizumab, an immuno-oncology asset being developed for diffuse large B-cell lymphoma and other hematologic malignancies. We expect this acquisition will accelerate our leadership in Oncology –– a high priority area for our company. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 11 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Acquisition of Bamboo Therapeutics, Inc. (R&D) ––On August 1, 2016, we acquired all the remaining equity in Bamboo, a privately-held biotechnology company, focused on developing gene therapies for the potential treatment of patients with certain rare diseases relating to neuromuscular conditions and those affecting the central nervous system, for $150 million, plus potential milestone payments of up to $495 million contingent upon the progression of key assets through development, regulatory approval and commercialization. We previously purchased a minority stake in Bamboo in the first quarter of 2016 for a payment of approximately $43 million. This acquisition provides us with several clinical and pre-clinical assets that complement our rare disease portfolio, an advanced recombinant AAV vector design and production technology, and a fully functional Phase I/II gene therapy manufacturing facility. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Acquisition of Anacor Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (IH) ––On June 24, 2016, we acquired Anacor for $99.25 per share. The total fair value of consideration transferred for Anacor was approximately $4.9 billion in cash ( $4.5 billion net of cash acquired) plus $698 million debt assumed. Anacor’s crisaborole, a non-steroidal topical PDE-4 inhibitor with anti-inflammatory properties, was approved by the FDA on December 14, 2016 under the trade name, Eucrisa, for the treatment of mild-to-moderate atopic dermatitis in patients two years of age and older, commonly referred to as a type of eczema. Anacor also holds the rights to Kerydin, a topical treatment for onychomycosis (toenail fungus) that is distributed and commercialized by Sandoz in the U.S. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Research and Development Arrangement with NovaQuest Co-Investment Fund II, L.P. ––On November 1, 2016, we announced the discontinuation of the global clinical development program for bococizumab. During December 2016, $31.3 million was refunded to NovaQuest representing amounts NovaQuest prepaid for development costs (under the May 2016 agreement described below) that were not used for program expenses due to the discontinuation of the development program. No additional payments are expected to be received from or paid to NovaQuest under this agreement, which was effectively terminated on November 18, 2016. 
 In May 2016, our agreement with NovaQuest became effective, under which NovaQuest agreed to fund up to $250 million in development costs related to certain Phase III clinical trials of Pfizer’s bococizumab compound and Pfizer agreed to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop and obtain regulatory approvals for such compound. NovaQuest’s development funding was expected to cover up to 40% of the development costs and was to be received over five quarters during 2016 and 2017. As there was a substantive and genuine transfer of risk to NovaQuest, the development funding applicable to program expenses during 2016 was recognized as an obligation to perform contractual services and therefore has been recognized as a reduction of Research and development expenses as incurred. The reduction to Research and development expenses for 2016 totaled $180.3 million . 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Research and Development Arrangement with NovaQuest Co-Investment Fund V, L.P. ––In April 2016, Pfizer entered into an agreement with NovaQuest under which NovaQuest will fund up to $200 million in development costs related to certain Phase III clinical trials of Pfizer’s rivipansel compound and Pfizer will use commercially reasonable efforts to develop and obtain regulatory approvals for such compound. NovaQuest’s development funding is expected to cover up to 100% of the development costs and will be received over approximately twelve quarters from 2016 to 2019. As there is a substantive and genuine transfer of risk to NovaQuest, the development funding is recognized by us as an obligation to perform contractual services and therefore is a reduction of Research and development expenses as incurred. The reduction to Research and development expenses for 2016 totaled $46.6 million . Following potential regulatory approval, NovaQuest will be eligible to receive a combination of fixed milestone payments of up to approximately $267 million in total, based on achievement of first commercial sale and certain levels of cumulative net sales as well as royalties on rivipansel net sales over approximately eight years. Fixed sales-based milestone payments will be recorded as intangible assets and amortized to Amortization of intangible assets over the estimated commercial life of the rivipansel product and royalties on net sales will be recorded as Cost of sales when incurred. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Terminated Agreement to Combine with Allergan plc ––On April 6, 2016, we announced that the merger agreement between Pfizer and Allergan entered into on November 22, 2015 was terminated by mutual agreement of the companies. In connection with the termination of the merger agreement, on April 8, 2016 (which fell into Pfizer’s second fiscal quarter), Pfizer paid Allergan $150 million (pre-tax) for reimbursement of Allergan’s expenses associated with the terminated transaction. Pfizer and Allergan also released each other from any and all claims in connection with the merger agreement. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 4. Other (Income)/Deductions — Net and the “Our Business” section of this Financial Review. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Research and Development Arrangement with RPI Finance Trust ––In January 2016, Pfizer entered into an agreement with RPI, a subsidiary of Royalty Pharma, under which RPI will fund up to $300 million in development costs related to certain Phase III clinical trials of Pfizer’s Ibrance (palbociclib) product primarily for adjuvant treatment of hormone receptor positive early breast cancer (the Indication). RPI’s development funding is expected to cover up to 100% of the costs primarily for the applicable clinical trials through 2021. As there is a substantive and genuine transfer of risk to RPI, the development funding is recognized by us as an obligation to perform contractual services and therefore is a reduction of Research and development expenses as incurred. The reduction to Research and development expenses for 2016 totaled $44.9 million . If successful and upon approval of Ibrance in the U.S. or certain major markets in the EU for the Indication based on the applicable clinical trials, RPI will be eligible to receive a combination of approval-based fixed milestone payments of up to $250 million dependent upon results of the clinical trials and royalties on certain Ibrance sales over approximately seven years. Fixed milestone payments due upon approval will be recorded as intangible assets and amortized to Amortization of intangible assets over the estimated commercial life of the Ibrance product and sales-based royalties will be recorded as Cost of sales when incurred. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Acquisition of Hospira (EH) ––On September 3, 2015, we acquired Hospira, a leading provider of sterile injectable drugs and infusion technologies as well as a provider of biosimilars, for approximately $16.1 billion in cash ( $15.7 billion , net of cash acquired). For additional information, see the “Our Business” section of this Financial Review. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Acquisition of a Minority Interest in AM-Pharma B.V. (IH) ––In April 2015, we acquired a minority equity interest in AM-Pharma, a privately-held Dutch biopharmaceutical company focused on the development of recAP for inflammatory diseases, and secured an exclusive option to acquire the remaining equity in the company. The option becomes exercisable after completion of a Phase II trial of recAP in the treatment of Acute Kidney Injury related to sepsis, which is expected in 2017. Under the terms of the agreement, we paid $87.5 million for both the exclusive option and the minority equity interest, which was recorded as a cost-method investment in Long-term investments , and we may make additional payments of up to $512.5 million upon exercise of the option and potential launch of any product that may result from this investment. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 12 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Collaboration with OPKO Health, Inc. ––We entered into a collaborative agreement with OPKO, which closed in January 2015, to develop and commercialize OPKO’s long-acting hGH-CTP for the treatment of GHD in adults and children, as well as for the treatment of growth failure in children born SGA who fail to show catch-up growth by two years of age. hGH-CTP has the potential to reduce the required dosing frequency of human growth hormone to a single weekly injection from the current standard of one injection per day. We have received the exclusive license to commercialize hGH-CTP worldwide. OPKO will lead the clinical activities and will be responsible for funding the development programs for the key indications, which include Adult and Pediatric GHD and Pediatric SGA. We will be responsible for all development costs for additional indications, all postmarketing studies, manufacturing and commercialization activities for all indications, and we will lead the manufacturing activities related to product development. In February 2015, we made an upfront payment of $295 million to OPKO, which was recorded in Research and development expenses, and OPKO is eligible to receive up to an additional $275 million upon the achievement of certain regulatory milestones. OPKO is also eligible to receive royalty payments associated with the commercialization of hGH-CTP for Adult GHD, which is subject to regulatory approval. Upon the launch of hGH-CTP for Pediatric GHD, which is subject to regulatory approval, the royalties will transition to tiered gross profit sharing for both hGH-CTP and our product, Genotropin. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Acquisition of Marketed Vaccines Business of Baxter International Inc. (IH) ––On December 1, 2014 (which fell in the first fiscal quarter of 2015 for our international operations), we acquired Baxter’s portfolio of marketed vaccines for a final purchase price of $648 million. The portfolio that was acquired consists of NeisVac-C and FSME-IMMUN/TicoVac. NeisVac-C is a vaccine that helps protect against meningitis caused by group C meningococcal meningitis and FSME-IMMUN/TicoVac is a vaccine that helps protect against tick-borne encephalitis. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Collaboration with Merck KGaA (IH) ––In November 2014, we entered into a collaborative arrangement with Merck KGaA, to jointly develop and commercialize avelumab, the proposed international non-proprietary name for the investigational anti-PD-L1 antibody (MSB0010718C), currently in development as a potential treatment for multiple types of cancer. We and Merck KGaA are exploring the therapeutic potential of this novel anti-PD-L1 antibody as a single agent as well as in various combinations with our and Merck KGaA’s broad portfolio of approved and investigational oncology therapies. Our avelumab program with Merck KGaA has 30 programs on-going, ten of which are potentially registration enabling trials (two in lung cancer, two in gastric cancer, two in ovarian cancer, and one each in bladder cancer, Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC), squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck and RCC). We received FDA breakthrough therapy designation for avelumab in metastatic MCC. In the fourth quarter of 2016, the FDA biologics license application and the EMA marketing authorization application for MCC were accepted for review. We and Merck KGaA are also combining resources and expertise to advance Pfizer’s anti-PD-1 antibody into Phase 1 trials. Under the terms of the agreement, in the fourth quarter of 2014, we made an upfront payment of $850 million to Merck KGaA and Merck KGaA is eligible to receive regulatory and commercial milestone payments of up to approximately $2.0 billion . Both companies will jointly fund all development and commercialization costs, and split equally any profits generated from selling any anti-PD-L1 or anti-PD-1 products from this collaboration. Also, as part of the agreement, we gave Merck KGaA certain co-promotion rights for Xalkori in the U.S. and several other key markets, and co-promotion activities were initiated in key select markets in 2015. In 2014, we recorded $1.2 billion of Research and development expenses associated with this collaborative arrangement, composed of the $850 million upfront cash payment as well as an additional amount of $309 million, reflecting the estimated fair value of the co-promotion rights given to Merck KGaA. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Acquisition of InnoPharma, Inc. (IH) ––On September 24, 2014, we completed our acquisition of InnoPharma, a privately-held pharmaceutical development company, for an upfront cash payment of $225 million and contingent consideration of up to $135 million. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 License from Cellectis SA ––In June 2014, we entered into a global arrangement with Cellectis to develop Chimeric Antigen Receptor T-cell immunotherapies in the field of oncology directed at select cellular surface antigen targets. In August 2014, in connection with this licensing agreement, we made an upfront payment of $80 million to Cellectis, which was recorded in Research and development expenses . We will also fund R&D costs associated with up to 15 Pfizer-selected targets and, for the benefit of Cellectis, a portion of the R&D costs associated with four Cellectis-selected targets within the arrangement. Cellectis is eligible to receive development, regulatory and commercial milestone payments of up to $185 million per product that results from the Pfizer-selected targets as well as tiered royalties on net sales of any products that are commercialized by Pfizer. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Collaboration with Eli Lilly & Company ––In 2013, we entered into a collaboration agreement with Lilly to jointly develop and globally commercialize Pfizer ’ s tanezumab, which provides that Pfizer and Lilly will equally share product-development expenses as well as potential revenues and certain product-related costs. Following the decision by the FDA in March 2015 to lift the partial clinical hold on the tanezumab development program, we received a $200 million upfront payment from Lilly in accordance with the collaboration agreement between Pfizer and Lilly, which is recorded as deferred revenue in our consolidated balance sheet and is being recognized into Other (income)/deductions –– net over a multi-year period beginning in the second quarter of 2015. Pfizer and Lilly resumed the Phase 3 chronic pain program for tanezumab in July 2015. Under the collaboration agreement with Lilly, we are eligible to receive additional payments from Lilly upon the achievement of specified regulatory and commercial milestones. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 License of Nexium OTC Rights ––In August 2012, we entered into an agreement with AstraZeneca for the exclusive, global, OTC rights for Nexium, a prescription drug approved to treat the symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux disease. On May 27, 2014, we launched Nexium 24HR in the U.S., and on July 11, 2014, we paid AstraZeneca a related $200 million product launch milestone payment. On August 1, 2014, we launched Nexium Control in Europe, and on September 15, 2014, we paid AstraZeneca a related $50 million product launch milestone payment. These post-approval milestone payments were recorded in Identifiable intangible assets, less accumulated amortization and are being amortized over the estimated useful life of the Nexium brand. Included in Other current liabilities at December 31, 2015 are accrued milestone payments to AstraZeneca of $93 million, which were subsequently paid to AstraZeneca in April 2016. AstraZeneca is eligible to receive additional milestone payments of up to approximately $200 million, based on the level of worldwide sales as well as quarterly royalty payments based on worldwide sales. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 13 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Our Financial Guidance for 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following table provides our financial guidance for full-year 2017 (a), (b) : 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 $52.0 to $54.0 billion 
 
 
 Adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenues 
 
 20.0% to 21.0% 
 
 
 Adjusted selling, informational and administrative expenses 
 
 $13.7 to $14.7 billion 
 
 
 Adjusted research and development expenses 
 
 $7.5 to $8.0 billion 
 
 
 Adjusted other (income)/deductions 
 
 Approximately $100 million of deductions 
 
 
 Effective tax rate on adjusted income 
 
 Approximately 23.0% 
 
 
 Adjusted diluted EPS 
 
 $2.50 to $2.60 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 The 2017 financial guidance reflects the following: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The disposition of the HIS net assets in February 2017, which contributed $1.2 billion of revenues and $0.03 of adjusted diluted EPS in 2016. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Does not assume the completion of any business development transactions not completed as of December 31, 2016 , including any one-time upfront payments associated with such transactions, except for the disposition of HIS in February 2017. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Exchange rates assumed are as of mid-January 2017. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Reflects an anticipated negative revenue impact of $2.4 billion due to recent and expected generic and biosimilar competition for certain products that have recently lost or are anticipated to soon lose patent protection. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Reflects the anticipated negative impact of $0.9 billion on revenues and $0.05 on adjusted diluted EPS as a result of unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar compared to foreign exchange rates from 2016. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Guidance for adjusted diluted EPS assumes diluted weighted-average shares outstanding of approximately 6.1 billion shares, which reflects our $5.0 billion accelerated share repurchase agreement announced in February 2017, which is expected to more than offset potential dilution related to employee compensation programs. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 For an understanding of Adjusted income and its components and Adjusted diluted EPS (all of which are non-GAAP financial measures), see the “Non-GAAP Financial Measure (Adjusted Income)” section of this Financial Review. 
 Pfizer does not provide guidance for GAAP Reported financial measures (other than Revenues) or a reconciliation of forward-looking non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP Reported financial measures on a forward-looking basis because it is unable to predict with reasonable certainty the ultimate outcome of pending litigation, unusual gains and losses, acquisition-related expenses and potential future asset impairments without unreasonable effort. These items are uncertain, depend on various factors, and could have a material impact on GAAP Reported results for the guidance period. 
 For information about our three-year cost-reduction initiative entered into in the fourth quarter of 2016 and actual costs and cost savings associated with our cost-reduction initiatives announced in 2014, the Hospira acquisition, our recent business development activities, and global commercial structure, see the “Costs and Expenses––Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives” section of this Financial Review and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 3 . Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives. 
 
 Our 2017 financial guidance is subject to a number of factors and uncertainties as described in the “Our Operating Environment”, “The Global Economic Environment”, “Our Strategy” and “Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results” sections of this Financial Review; and Part I, ITEM 1A, “Risk Factors” of our 2016 Form 10-K. 
 
 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND APPLICATION OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS 
 
 For a description of our significant accounting policies, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 1. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies . Of these policies, the following are considered critical to an understanding of our consolidated financial statements as they require the application of the most subjective and the most complex judgments: (i) Acquisitions (Note 1D); (ii) Fair Value (Note 1E); (iii) Revenues (Note 1G); (iv) Asset Impairments (Note 1K); (v) Income Tax Contingencies (Note 1O); (vi) Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans (Note 1P); and Legal and Environmental Contingencies (Note 1Q). 
 
 Following is a discussion about the critical accounting estimates and assumptions impacting our consolidated financial statements. See also Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 1C. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies: Estimates and Assumptions for a discussion about the risks associated with estimates and assumptions. 
 
 Acquisitions and Fair Value 
 
 For a discussion about the application of Fair Value to our recent acquisitions, see “Acquisition of Hospira” below and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 2A. Acquisitions, Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Agreements, Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements, Equity-Method Investments and Cost-Method Investment : Acquisitions. 
 
 For a discussion about the application of Fair Value to our investments, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 7A. Financial Instruments: Selected Financial Assets and Liabilities . 
 
 For a discussion about the application of Fair Value to our benefit plan assets, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 11D. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans and Defined Contribution Plans: Plan Assets . 
 
 For a discussion about the application of Fair Value to our asset impairment reviews, see “Asset Impairment Reviews” below. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 14 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 Our gross product revenues are subject to a variety of deductions that are generally estimated and recorded in the same period that the revenues are recognized, and primarily represent chargebacks, rebates and sales allowances to wholesalers, and, to a lesser extent, distributors like MCOs, retailers and government agencies with respect to our pharmaceutical products. Those deductions represent estimates of rebates and discounts related to gross sales for the reporting period, and, as such, knowledge and judgment of market conditions and practice are required when estimating the impact of these revenue deductions on gross sales for a reporting period. 
 
 Historically, our adjustments of estimates, to reflect actual results or updated expectations, have not been material to our overall business. On a quarterly basis, our adjustments of estimates to reflect actual results generally have been less than 1% of revenues, and have resulted in either a net increase or a net decrease in revenues. Product-specific rebates, however, can have a significant impact on year-over-year individual product growth trends. If any of our ratios, factors, assessments, experiences or judgments are not indicative or accurate predictors of our future experience, our results could be materially affected. The sensitivity of our estimates can vary by program, type of customer and geographic location. However, estimates associated with U.S. Medicare, Medicaid and performance-based contract rebates are most at risk for material adjustment because of the extensive time delay between the recording of the accrual and its ultimate settlement, an interval that can generally range up to one year. Because of this time lag, in any given quarter, our adjustments to actual can incorporate revisions of several prior quarters. 
 
 Asset Impairment Reviews 
 
 We review all of our long-lived assets for impairment indicators throughout the year. We perform impairment testing for indefinite-lived intangible assets and goodwill at least annually and for all other long-lived assets whenever impairment indicators are present. When necessary, we record charges for impairments of long-lived assets for the amount by which the fair value is less than the carrying value of these assets. Our impairment review processes are described in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 1K. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies: Amortization of Intangible Assets, Depreciation and Certain Long-Lived Assets. 
 
 Examples of events or circumstances that may be indicative of impairment include: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 A significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate that could affect the value of the asset. For example, a successful challenge of our patent rights would likely result in generic competition earlier than expected. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 A significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used. For example, restrictions imposed by the FDA or other regulatory authorities could affect our ability to manufacture or sell a product. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 A projection or forecast that indicates losses or reduced profits associated with an asset. This could result, for example, from a change in a government reimbursement program that results in an inability to sustain projected product revenues and profitability. This also could result from the introduction of a competitor’s product that results in a significant loss of market share or the inability to achieve the previously projected revenue growth, as well as the lack of acceptance of a product by patients, physicians and payers. For IPR&D projects, this could result from, among other things, a change in outlook based on clinical trial data, a delay in the projected launch date or additional expenditures to commercialize the product. 
 
 Identifiable Intangible Assets 
 
 As a result of our identifiable intangible asset impairment review work, we recognized a number of impairments of identifiable intangible assets for the years ended December 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 . See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 4. Other (Income)/Deductions — Net. 
 
 When we are required to determine the fair value of intangible assets other than goodwill, we use an income approach, specifically the discounted cash flow method. We start with a forecast of all the expected net cash flows associated with the asset, which includes the application of a terminal value for indefinite-lived assets, and then we apply an asset-specific discount rate to arrive at a net present value amount. Some of the more significant estimates and assumptions inherent in this approach include: the amount and timing of the projected net cash flows, which includes the expected impact of competitive, legal and/or regulatory forces on the projections and the impact of technological risk associated with IPR&D assets, as well as the selection of a long-term growth rate; the discount rate, which seeks to reflect the various risks inherent in the projected cash flows; and the tax rate, which seeks to incorporate the geographic diversity of the projected cash flows. 
 
 While all intangible assets other than goodwill can face events and circumstances that can lead to impairment, in general, intangible assets other than goodwill that are most at risk of impairment include IPR&D assets (approximately $10.1 billion as of December 31, 2016 ) and newly acquired or recently impaired indefinite-lived brand assets. IPR&D assets are high-risk assets, as R&D is an inherently risky activity. Newly acquired and recently impaired indefinite-lived assets are more vulnerable to impairment as the assets are recorded at fair value and are then subsequently measured at the lower of fair value or carrying value at the end of each reporting period. As such, immediately after acquisition or impairment, even small declines in the outlook for these assets can negatively impact our ability to recover the carrying value and can result in an impairment charge. 
 
 Goodwill 
 
 As a result of our goodwill impairment review work, we concluded that none of our goodwill was impaired as of December 31, 2016 , and we do not believe the risk of impairment is significant at this time. 
 
 Fair value determinations require considerable judgment and are sensitive to changes in underlying assumptions and factors. Examples of events or circumstances that could impact the estimated fair value of a reporting unit may include items such as changes in operating results, anticipated future cash flows, the discount rate and market multiples, among others. Our Consumer Healthcare reporting unit has the 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 15 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 narrowest difference between estimated fair value and estimated book value. However, we believe that it would take a significant negative change in the undiscounted cash flows, the discount rate and/or the market multiples in the consumer industry for the Consumer Healthcare reporting unit goodwill to be impaired. Our Consumer Healthcare reporting unit performance and consumer healthcare industry market multiples are highly correlated with the overall economy and our specific performance is also dependent on our and our competitors’ innovation and marketing effectiveness, and on regulatory developments affecting claims, formulations and ingredients of our products. 
 
 When we are required to determine the fair value of a reporting unit, as appropriate for the individual reporting unit, we mainly use the income approach but we may also use the market approach, or a weighted-average combination of both approaches. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The income approach is a forward-looking approach to estimating fair value and relies primarily on internal forecasts. Within the income approach, the method that we use is the discounted cash flow method. We start with a forecast of all the expected net cash flows associated with the reporting unit, which includes the application of a terminal value, and then we apply a reporting unit-specific discount rate to arrive at a net present value amount. Some of the more significant estimates and assumptions inherent in this approach include: the amount and timing of the projected net cash flows, which includes the expected impact of technological risk and competitive, legal and/or regulatory forces on the projections, as well as the selection of a long-term growth rate; the discount rate, which seeks to reflect the various risks inherent in the projected cash flows; and the tax rate, which seeks to incorporate the geographic diversity of the projected cash flows. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The market approach is a historical approach to estimating fair value and relies primarily on external information. Within the market approach are two methods that we may use: 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 Guideline public company method—this method employs market multiples derived from market prices of stocks of companies that are engaged in the same or similar lines of business and that are actively traded on a free and open market and the application of the identified multiples to the corresponding measure of our reporting unit’s financial performance. 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 Guideline transaction method—this method relies on pricing multiples derived from transactions of significant interests in companies engaged in the same or similar lines of business and the application of the identified multiples to the corresponding measure of our reporting unit’s financial performance. 
 The market approach is only appropriate when the available external information is robust and deemed to be a reliable proxy for the specific reporting unit being valued; however, these assessments may prove to be incomplete or inaccurate. Some of the more significant estimates and assumptions inherent in this approach include: the selection of appropriate guideline companies and transactions and the determination of applicable premiums and discounts based on any differences in ownership percentages, ownership rights, business ownership forms or marketability between the reporting unit and the guideline companies and transactions. 
 Specifically: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 When we estimate the fair value of our six biopharmaceutical reporting units, we rely solely on the income approach. We use the income approach exclusively as the use of the comparable guideline company method is not practical or reliable. For the income approach, we use the discounted cash flow method. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 When we estimate the fair value of our Consumer Healthcare reporting unit, we use a combination of approaches and methods. We use the income approach and the market approach, which we weight equally in our analysis. We weight them equally as we have equal confidence in the appropriateness of the approaches for this reporting unit. For the income approach, we use the discounted cash flow method and for the market approach, we use both the guideline public company method and the guideline transaction method, which we weight equally to arrive at our market approach value. 
 For all of our reporting units, there are a number of future events and factors that may impact future results and that could potentially have an impact on the outcome of subsequent goodwill impairment testing. For a list of these factors, see the “Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results” section of this Financial Review and Part I, ITEM 1A, “Risk Factors” in our 2016 Form 10-K. 
 
 Benefit Plans 
 
 The majority of our employees worldwide are covered by defined benefit pension plans, defined contribution plans or both. In the U.S., we have both IRC-qualified and supplemental (non-qualified) defined benefit plans and defined contribution plans, as well as other postretirement benefit plans consisting primarily of medical insurance for retirees and their eligible dependents. 
 
 The accounting for benefit plans is highly dependent on actuarial estimates, assumptions and calculations, which can result from a complex series of judgments about future events and uncertainties. The assumptions and actuarial estimates required to estimate the net employee benefit obligations for the defined benefit and postretirement plans include the discount rate; expected salary increases; certain employee-related factors, such as turnover, retirement age and mortality (life expectancy); expected return on plan assets; and healthcare cost trend rates. 
 Effective January 1, 2016, we changed the approach used to measure service and interest costs for certain international pension and other postretirement benefits. For fiscal 2015 and 2014, we measured service and interest costs utilizing a single weighted-average discount rate derived from the yield curve used to measure the respective plan obligations. For fiscal 2016, we elected to measure service and interest costs by applying the spot rates along the yield curve for certain international plans to the plans' liability cash flows. We believe the new approach provides a more precise measurement of service and interest costs by aligning the timing of the plans’ liability cash flows to the corresponding spot rates on the yield curve. This change does not affect the measurement of our plan obligations. We have accounted for this change as a change in accounting estimate and, accordingly, have accounted for it on a prospective basis. The reduction in expense for 2016 associated with this change in estimate was $42 million , primarily related to certain international pension plans, which was recognized evenly over each quarter of the year. The change in approach for the postretirement benefit plans was not material to the 2016 consolidated statement of income. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 16 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 In the fourth quarter of 2014, we approved a change, effective January 1, 2016, to the U.S. postretirement medical plan to transfer certain plan participants to a retiree drug coverage program eligible for a Medicare Part D plan subsidy (EGWP). This change resulted in a decrease to the postretirement benefit obligation of approximately $600 million as of December 31, 2014. 
 
 As of December 31, 2016 , the noncurrent portion of our pension benefit obligations, net, and our postretirement benefit obligations, net increased, in the aggregate, by approximately $53 million compared to December 31, 2015 . The increase reflects, among other things, a decrease in our discount rate assumptions used in the measurement of the plan obligations, largely offset by an increase in actual returns on plan assets and a decrease in the postretirement plan obligations due to medical plan cap changes with the U.S. and Puerto Rico postretirement plans and the adoption of the EGWP by the Puerto Rico postretirement plan. 
 Our assumptions reflect our historical experiences and our judgment regarding future expectations that have been deemed reasonable by management. The judgments made in determining the costs of our benefit plans can materially impact our results of operations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following table provides (i) at the end of each year, the expected annual rate of return on plan assets for the following year, (ii) the actual annual rate of return on plan assets achieved in each year, and (iii) the weighted-average discount rate used to measure the benefit obligations at the end of each year for our U.S. qualified pension plans and our international pension plans (a) : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 2014 
 
 
 
 
 U.S. Qualified Pension Plans 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Expected annual rate of return on plan assets 
 
 
 
 8.0 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 8.0 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 8.3 
 
 % 
 
 
 Actual annual rate of return on plan assets 
 
 
 
 8.1 
 
 
 
 
 
 (0.8 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 6.8 
 
 
 
 
 Discount rate used to measure the plan obligations 
 
 
 
 4.3 
 
 
 
 
 
 4.5 
 
 
 
 
 
 4.2 
 
 
 
 
 International Pension Plans 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Expected annual rate of return on plan assets 
 
 
 
 4.7 
 
 
 
 
 
 5.2 
 
 
 
 
 
 5.5 
 
 
 
 
 Actual annual rate of return on plan assets 
 
 
 
 9.3 
 
 
 
 
 
 3.6 
 
 
 
 
 
 13.2 
 
 
 
 
 Discount rate used to measure the plan obligations 
 
 
 
 2.4 
 
 
 
 
 
 3.1 
 
 
 
 
 
 3.0 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 For detailed assumptions associated with our benefit plans, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 11B. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans and Defined Contribution Plans: Actuarial Assumptions. 
 Expected Annual Rate of Return on Plan Assets 
 
 The assumptions for the expected annual rate of return on all of our plan assets reflect our actual historical return experience and our long-term assessment of forward-looking return expectations by asset classes, which is used to develop a weighted-average expected return based on the implementation of our targeted asset allocation in our respective plans. 
 
 The expected annual rate of return on plan assets for our U.S. plans and the majority of our international plans is applied to the fair value of plan assets at each year-end and the resulting amount is reflected in our net periodic benefit costs in the following year. In January 2017, Pfizer made a voluntary contribution of $1.0 billion to plan assets. In 2017, this contribution will be included in the plan asset balance for purposes of determining the expected return on plan assets. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following table illustrates the sensitivity of net periodic benefit costs to a 50 basis point decline in our assumption for the expected annual rate of return on plan assets, holding all other assumptions constant (in millions, pre-tax): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Change 
 
 
 
 Increase in 2017 Net Periodic Benefit Costs 
 
 
 Assumption 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Expected annual rate of return on plan assets 
 
 
 
 50 basis point decline 
 
 
 
 $102 
 
 The actual return on plan assets resulted in a net gain on our plan assets of approximately $1.7 billion during 2016 . 
 
 Discount Rate Used to Measure Plan Obligations 
 
 The weighted-average discount rate used to measure the plan obligations for our U.S. defined benefit plans is determined at least annually and evaluated and modified, as required, to reflect the prevailing market rate of a portfolio of high-quality fixed income investments, rated AA/Aa or better, that reflect the rates at which the pension benefits could be effectively settled. The discount rate used to measure the plan obligations for our international plans is determined at least annually by reference to investment grade corporate bonds, rated AA/Aa or better, including, when there are sufficient data, a yield-curve approach. These discount rate determinations are made in consideration of local requirements. 
 
 The measurement of the plan obligations at the end of the year will affect the amount of service cost, interest cost and amortization expense reflected in our net periodic benefit costs in the following year. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following table illustrates the sensitivity of net periodic benefit costs and benefit obligations to a 10 basis point decline in our assumption for the discount rate, holding all other assumptions constant (in millions, pre-tax): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Change 
 
 
 
 2017 Net Periodic Benefit Costs 
 
 
 
 2016 Benefit Obligations 
 
 
 Assumption 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Increase 
 
 
 
 Increase 
 
 
 Discount rate 
 
 
 
 10 basis point decline 
 
 
 
 $34 
 
 
 
 $421 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 17 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The change in the discount rates used in measuring our plan obligations as of December 31, 2016 resulted in an increase in the measurement of our aggregate plan obligations by approximately $2.0 billion . 
 Contingencies 
 
 For a discussion about income tax contingencies, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 5D. Tax Matters: Tax Contingencies. 
 
 For a discussion about legal and environmental contingencies, guarantees and indemnifications, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 17. Commitments and Contingencies . 
 Acquisition of Hospira 
 Description of Transaction 
 On September 3, 2015, we acquired Hospira, a leading provider of sterile injectable drugs and infusion technologies as well as a provider of biosimilars, for approximately $16.1 billion in cash ( $15.7 billion , net of cash acquired). 
 Recording of Assets Acquired and Liabilities Assumed 
 Our acquisition of Hospira has been accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting, which generally requires that most assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recorded at fair value as of the acquisition date. A single estimate of fair value results from a complex series of judgments about future events and uncertainties and relies heavily on estimates and assumptions. Our judgments used to determine the estimated fair value assigned to each class of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as well as asset lives, can materially impact our results of operations. For instance, the determination of asset lives can impact our results of operations as different types of assets will have different useful lives and certain assets may even be considered to have indefinite useful lives. 
 For the amounts recognized for the Hospira assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date, including measurement period adjustments recognized in 2016 to the amounts initially recorded in 2015, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 2A. Acquisitions, Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Agreements, Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements, Equity-Method Investments and Cost-Method Investment : Acquisitions . 
 Below is a summary of the methodologies and significant assumptions used in estimating the fair value of certain classes of assets and liabilities of Hospira as of the acquisition date. 
 For financial instruments acquired from Hospira, our valuation approach was consistent with our valuation methodologies used for our legacy Pfizer financial instruments. For additional information on the valuation of our financial instruments, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 7. Financial Instruments . 
 Inventories —The fair value of acquired inventory ( $1.9 billion ) was determined as follows: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Finished goods— Estimated selling price, less an estimate of costs to be incurred to sell the inventory, and an estimate of a reasonable profit allowance for that selling effort. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Work in process— Estimated selling price of an equivalent finished good, less an estimate of costs to be incurred to complete the work-in-process inventory, an estimate of costs to be incurred to sell the inventory and an estimate of a reasonable profit allowance for those manufacturing and selling efforts. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Raw materials and supplies— Estimated cost to replace the raw materials and supplies. 
 The fair value of inventory is recognized in our results of operations as the inventory is sold. Some of the more significant estimates and assumptions inherent in the estimate of the fair value of inventory include stage of completion, costs to complete, costs to dispose and selling price. All of these judgments and estimates can materially impact our results of operations. 
 Property, Plant and Equipment —The fair value of acquired property, plant and equipment is determined using a variety of valuation approaches, depending on the nature of the asset and the quality of available information. The fair value of acquired property, plant and equipment was primarily determined as follows: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Land–– Market, a sales comparison approach that measures value of an asset through an analysis of sales and offerings of comparable property. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Buildings, Machinery and equipment and Furniture and fixtures —Replacement cost, an approach that measures the value of an asset by estimating the cost to acquire or construct comparable assets. For buildings that are not highly specialized or that could be income producing if leased to a third party, we also considered market and income factors. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Construction in progress— Replacement cost, generally assumed to equal historical book value. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 18 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The amounts recorded for the major components of acquired property, plant and equipment are as follows: 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 Useful Lives 
 (Years) 
 
 
 
 Amounts Recognized 
 as of Acquisition Date 
 (as adjusted) Final 
 
 
 
 
 Land 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 111 
 
 
 
 
 Buildings 
 
 
 
 33—50 
 
 
 
 511 
 
 
 
 
 Machinery and equipment 
 
 
 
 8—20 
 
 
 
 1,049 
 
 
 
 
 Furniture, fixtures and other 
 
 
 
 3—12 1/2 
 
 
 
 141 
 
 
 
 
 Construction in progress 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 541 
 
 
 
 
 Total Property, plant and equipment 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 2,352 
 
 
 The fair value of property, plant and equipment will be recognized in our results of operations over the expected useful life of the individual depreciable assets. Some of the more significant inputs, estimates and assumptions inherent in the estimate of the fair value of property, plant and equipment include the nature, age, condition or location of the land, buildings, machinery and equipment, furniture and fixtures, and construction in progress, as applicable, as well as the estimate of market and replacement cost and the determination of the appropriate valuation premise, in-use or in-exchange. The in-use valuation premise assesses the value of an asset when used in combination with other assets (for example, on an installed basis), while the in-exchange valuation assesses the value of an asset on a stand alone basis. All of these judgments and estimates can materially impact our results of operations. 
 
 Identifiable Intangible Assets — The fair value of acquired identifiable intangible assets generally is determined using an income approach. This method starts with a forecast of all of the expected future net cash flows associated with the asset and then adjusts the forecast to present value by applying an appropriate discount rate that reflects the risk factors associated with the cash flow streams. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The amounts recorded for the major components of acquired identifiable intangible assets are as follows: 
 
 
 MILLIONS OF DOLLARS 
 
 
 
 Amounts Recognized As of Acquisition Date (as adjusted) Final 
 
 
 
 
 
 Weighted-Average Useful Lives (Years) 
 
 
 
 
 Developed technology rights––finite lived 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 7,720 
 
 
 
 
 
 17 
 
 
 
 
 Other––finite-lived 
 
 
 
 570 
 
 
 
 
 
 12 
 
 
 
 
 IPR&D 
 
 
 
 1,030 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 For information about our identifiable intangible assets, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 10A. Identifiable Intangible Assets and Goodwill: Identifiable Intangible Assets . 
 The fair value of finite-lived identifiable intangible assets will be recognized in our results of operations over the expected useful life of the individual assets. 
 As of the acquisition date, we recognized IPR&D assets of $685 million for biosimilar programs and $345 million for sterile injectable programs. 
 Biosimilar IPR&D Acquired Assets : 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 In order to eliminate certain redundancies in Pfizer’s biosimilar drug products pipeline created as a result of the acquisition of Hospira, in September 2015 we opted to return to Celltrion Inc. and Celltrion Healthcare, Co., Ltd. (collectively Celltrion) rights that Hospira had previously acquired to potential biosimilars to Rituxan ® (rituximab) and Herceptin ® (trastuzumab). In connection with the return of these rights, we wrote off these IPR&D assets, totaling $170 million . See the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 3. Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives for additional information. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 As of the acquisition date, the higher value remaining biosimilar IPR&D assets acquired from Hospira had been submitted to the FDA for approval and include potential biosimilars for (i) epoetin alfa (treatment of anemia in dialysis and oncology applications); and (ii) infliximab (rheumatoid arthritis and gastrointestinal disorders), which we began selling in the U.S. in November 2016. These biosimilars and filgrastim (oncology) are already available in certain markets outside the U.S. Filgrastim in the U.S. market and other biosimilar IPR&D assets acquired from Hospira are in late-stage development. See the “Product Developments––Biopharmaceutical” section of this Financial Review for additional information about these programs. 
 Sterile Injectable IPR&D Acquired Assets: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The sterile injectable IPR&D assets acquired from Hospira are in various therapeutic areas including anti-infectives, oncology, cardiovascular and neurology, among others. The sterile injectable IPR&D assets are in various stages of development with anticipated launch dates as of the acquisition date across 2016, 2017 and 2018. 
 Some of the more significant estimates and assumptions inherent in the estimate of the fair value of identifiable intangible assets include all assumptions associated with forecasting product profitability from the perspective of a market participant. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 19 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Specifically: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Revenue—We use historical, forecast, industry or other sources of market data including estimates of sales volume, selling prices, market penetration, market share and year-over-year growth rates over the product’s life cycle. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Cost of sales, Sales and marketing expenses, General and administrative expenses—We use historical, forecast, industry or other sources of market data to estimate the costs associated with the identifiable intangible asset over the product’s life cycle. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 R&D expenses—In the case of approved products, we estimate the appropriate level of ongoing R&D support, and for unapproved compounds, we estimate the amount and timing of costs to develop the R&D into viable products. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Estimated life of the asset—We assess the asset’s life cycle and the competitive trends impacting the asset, including consideration of any technical, legal, regulatory or economic barriers to entry, expected changes in standards of practice for indications addressed by the asset, as well as obsolescence factors and estimated contract renewal rates. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 I nherent risk—We use a discount rate that is primarily based on the weighted-average cost of capital with an additional premium to reflect the risks associated with the specific intangible asset, such as country risks (political, inflation, currency and property risks) and commercial risks. In addition, for unapproved assets, an additional risk factor is added for the risk of technical and regulatory success, called the probability of technical and regulatory success (PTRS). 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The discount rates used in the intangible asset valuations ranged from 11% to 16%, and the estimated cash flows were projected over periods extending up to 20 years or more. For IPR&D assets, the PTRS rates ranged from 44% to 88%. Within this broad range, we recorded approximately $20 million of assets with a PTRS of 44%, $230 million of assets with a PTRS of 45% to 75% and $780 million of assets with a PTRS above 75% ( $610 million after the write-off of the acquired biosimilar IPR&D assets discussed above). All of these judgments and estimates can materially impact our results of operations. 
 For IPR&D assets, the risk of failure has been factored into the fair value measure and there can be no certainty that these assets ultimately will yield a successful product. 
 Contingencies —For acquisition date contingencies, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 2A. Acquisitions, Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Agreements, Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements, Equity-Method Investments and Cost-Method Investment : Acquisitions . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 20 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ANALYSIS OF THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 
 2014 
 
 
 
 16/15 
 
 
 
 15/14 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 52,824 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 48,851 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 49,605 
 
 
 
 
 
 8 
 
 
 
 
 
 (2 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 
 
 12,329 
 
 
 
 
 
 9,648 
 
 
 
 
 
 9,577 
 
 
 
 
 
 28 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 
 
 
 
 
 % of revenues 
 
 
 
 23.3 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 19.7 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 19.3 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses 
 
 
 
 14,837 
 
 
 
 
 
 14,809 
 
 
 
 
 
 14,097 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 5 
 
 
 
 
 % of revenues 
 
 
 
 28.1 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 30.3 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 28.4 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Research and development expenses 
 
 
 
 7,872 
 
 
 
 
 
 7,690 
 
 
 
 
 
 8,393 
 
 
 
 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 (8 
 
 ) 
 
 
 % of revenues 
 
 
 
 14.9 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 15.7 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 16.9 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization of intangible assets 
 
 
 
 4,056 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,728 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,039 
 
 
 
 
 
 9 
 
 
 
 
 
 (8 
 
 ) 
 
 
 % of revenues 
 
 
 
 7.7 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 7.6 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 8.1 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 
 
 
 
 1,724 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,152 
 
 
 
 
 
 250 
 
 
 
 
 
 50 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 % of revenues 
 
 
 
 3.3 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 2.4 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 0.5 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Other (income)/deductions—net 
 
 
 
 3,655 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,860 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,009 
 
 
 
 
 
 28 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 Income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income 
 
 
 
 8,351 
 
 
 
 
 
 8,965 
 
 
 
 
 
 12,240 
 
 
 
 
 
 (7 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (27 
 
 ) 
 
 
 % of revenues 
 
 
 
 15.8 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 18.4 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 24.7 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Provision for taxes on income 
 
 
 
 1,123 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,990 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,120 
 
 
 
 
 
 (44 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (36 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Effective tax rate 
 
 
 
 13.4 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 22.2 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 25.5 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Income from continuing operations 
 
 
 
 7,229 
 
 
 
 
 
 6,975 
 
 
 
 
 
 9,119 
 
 
 
 
 
 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 (24 
 
 ) 
 
 
 % of revenues 
 
 
 
 13.7 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 14.3 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 18.4 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Discontinued operations—net of tax 
 
 
 
 17 
 
 
 
 
 
 11 
 
 
 
 
 
 48 
 
 
 
 
 
 49 
 
 
 
 
 
 (77 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Net income before allocation to noncontrolling interests 
 
 
 
 7,246 
 
 
 
 
 
 6,986 
 
 
 
 
 
 9,168 
 
 
 
 
 
 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 (24 
 
 ) 
 
 
 % of revenues 
 
 
 
 13.7 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 14.3 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 18.5 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 
 
 
 
 31 
 
 
 
 
 
 26 
 
 
 
 
 
 32 
 
 
 
 
 
 20 
 
 
 
 
 
 (21 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Net income attributable to Pfizer Inc. 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 7,215 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 6,960 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 9,135 
 
 
 
 
 
 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 (24 
 
 ) 
 
 
 % of revenues 
 
 
 
 13.7 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 14.2 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 18.4 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Certain amounts and percentages may reflect rounding adjustments. 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 Calculation not meaningful. 
 Revenues—Overview 
 
 Compared to 2015 , international revenues for 2016 were favorably impacted by approximately $100 million as a result of having one more selling day in international markets. In the U.S., there was no difference in selling days in 2016 , compared to 2015 . 
 
 Total revenues in 2016 compared to 2015 reflect an operational increase of $5.5 billion, or 11% , partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of $1.5 billion, or 3%, in 2016 , compared to 2015 . The operational increase was primarily the result of: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the inclusion of revenues from a full year of legacy Hospira global operations in 2016, as compared to four months of legacy Hospira U.S. operations and three months of legacy Hospira international operations in 2015, resulting in operational growth of $3.1 billion in 2016 ; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the continued operational growth from key brands including Ibrance, Lyrica (IH), Xeljanz and Chantix/Champix and Consumer Healthcare, (all primarily in the U.S.), as well as Eliquis and Xalkori (globally) (collectively, up approximately $3.6 billion in 2016 ); 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 operational growth in the legacy Pfizer Sterile Injectable Pharmaceuticals portfolio, mostly in emerging markets and the U.S. (up approximately $290 million); and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 to a lesser extent, the inclusion of legacy Medivation operations of $140 million, 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the loss of exclusivity and associated generic competition for Zyvox primarily in the U.S. and certain developed Europe markets (down approximately $410 million), Lyrica (EH) in certain developed Europe markets (down approximately $330 million) and for certain other products (collectively, down approximately $440 million) as well as biosimilar competition for Enbrel in most developed Europe markets (down approximately $230 million); 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the decline in Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13 revenues, primarily driven by an expected decline in revenues for the adult indication in the U.S. due to a high initial capture rate of the eligible population following its successful fourth-quarter 2014 launch, which resulted in a smaller remaining “catch up” opportunity compared to the prior-year, as well as the unfavorable impact of the timing of government purchases for the pediatric indication (down approximately $450 million); and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the year-end 2015 expiry of the collaboration agreement to co-promote Rebif in the U.S. (down approximately $370 million in 2016 ). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 21 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total revenues in 2015 compared to 2014 reflect an operational increase of $3.0 billion, or 6%, more than offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of $3.8 billion, or 8%, in 2015 compared to 2014. The operational increase was primarily the result of: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the performance of several key products in developed markets, including the continued strong uptake of Prevnar 13 among adults (largely in the U.S.), Ibrance (nearly all in the U.S.), Eliquis, Lyrica (IH) (primarily in the U.S. and Japan), Xeljanz (primarily in the U.S.), Viagra (IH) (primarily in the U.S.) and Nexium 24HR (primarily in the U.S.) (collectively, up approximately $4.1 billion); 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the inclusion of four months of legacy Hospira U.S. operations and three months of legacy Hospira international operations of $1.5 billion; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 a 7% operational increase in revenues in emerging markets, reflecting continued strong operational growth, primarily from Prevenar 13, Lipitor and Enbrel (up approximately $810 million); and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 inclusion of the vaccines acquired from Baxter of $178 million, 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the loss of exclusivity and immediate multi-source generic competition for Celebrex in the U.S. in December 2014 and certain other developed markets (down approximately $1.8 billion), and the loss of exclusivity for Lyrica (EH) in certain developed Europe markets (down approximately $420 million), for Zyvox in the U.S. (down approximately $420 million), for Rapamune in the U.S. (down approximately $120 million) and for certain other products (collectively, down approximately $330 million); 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the performance of certain other products in developed markets and BeneFIX in the U.S. (collectively, down approximately $370 million); and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the termination of the Spiriva co-promotion collaboration in certain countries (down approximately $100 million). 
 
 See the “Intellectual Property Rights and Collaboration/Licensing Rights” section of this Financial Report for information about (i) recent losses of product exclusivity impacting product revenues, (ii) recent losses of collaboration rights impacting alliance revenues and (iii) expected losses of product exclusivity in 2017 . 
 
 In addition, we expect to lose exclusivity for various other products in various markets over the next few years. For additional information, see the “Patents and Other Intellectual Property Rights” section in Part I, ITEM 1, “Business”, of our 2016 Form 10-K. 
 
 We have significant operations outside the U.S., with revenues exceeding $500 million in the following number of countries: 
 
 The U.S. and Japan are our two largest national markets: 
 
 Revenues by National Market 
 
 
 Our policy relating to the supply of pharmaceutical inventory at domestic wholesalers, and in major international markets, is to generally maintain stocking levels under one month on average and to keep monthly levels consistent from year to year based on patterns of utilization. We historically have been able to closely monitor these customer stocking levels by purchasing information from our customers directly or by obtaining other third-party information. We believe our data sources to be directionally reliable but cannot verify their accuracy. Further, as we do not control this third-party data, we cannot be assured of continuing access. Unusual buying patterns and utilization are promptly investigated. 
 
 Revenue Deductions 
 
 Our gross product revenues are subject to a variety of deductions that are generally estimated and recorded in the same period that the revenues are recognized, and primarily represent chargebacks, rebates and sales allowances to wholesalers, and, to a lesser extent, distributors like MCOs, retailers and government agencies with respect to our pharmaceutical products. Those deductions represent estimates 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 22 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 of rebates and discounts related to gross sales for the reporting period and, as such, knowledge and judgment of market conditions and practice are required when estimating the impact of these revenue deductions on gross sales for a reporting period. 
 
 Historically, our adjustments of estimates, to reflect actual results or updated expectations, have not been material to our overall business. On a quarterly basis, our adjustments of estimates to reflect actual results generally have been less than 1% of revenues, and have resulted in either a net increase or a net decrease in revenues. Product-specific rebates, however, can have a significant impact on year-over-year individual product growth trends. If any of our ratios, factors, assessments, experiences or judgments are not indicative or accurate predictors of our future experience, our results could be materially affected. The sensitivity of our estimates can vary by program, type of customer and geographic location. However, estimates associated with U.S. Medicare, Medicaid and performance-based contract rebates are most at risk for material adjustment because of the extensive time delay between the recording of the accrual and its ultimate settlement, an interval that can generally range up to one year. Because of this time lag, in any given quarter, our adjustments to actual can incorporate revisions of several prior quarters. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following table provides information about revenue deductions: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 2014 
 
 
 
 
 Medicare rebates (a) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,063 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,002 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,077 
 
 
 
 
 Medicaid and related state program rebates (a) 
 
 
 
 1,473 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,263 
 
 
 
 
 
 779 
 
 
 
 
 Performance-based contract rebates (a), (b) 
 
 
 
 2,560 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,253 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,219 
 
 
 
 
 Chargebacks (c) 
 
 
 
 5,736 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,961 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,755 
 
 
 
 
 Sales allowances (d) 
 
 
 
 4,623 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,200 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,547 
 
 
 
 
 Sales returns and cash discounts 
 
 
 
 1,441 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,335 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,279 
 
 
 
 
 Total (e) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 16,895 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 15,014 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 13,656 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 Rebates are product-specific and, therefore, for any given year are impacted by the mix of products sold. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 Performance-based contract rebates include contract rebates with managed care customers within the U.S., including health maintenance organizations and PBMs, who receive rebates based on the achievement of contracted performance terms and claims under these contracts. Outside the U.S., performance-based contract rebates include rebates to wholesalers/distributors based on achievement of contracted performance for specific products or sales milestones. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 Chargebacks primarily represent reimbursements to U.S. wholesalers for honoring contracted prices to third parties. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) 
 
 Sales allowances primarily represent price reductions that are contractual or legislatively mandated outside the U.S., discounts and distribution fees. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (e) 
 
 For 2016 , associated with the following segments: IH ( $7.1 billion ); and EH ( $9.8 billion ). For 2015 , associated with the following segments: IH ( $5.8 billion ); and EH ( $9.2 billion ). For 2014 , associated with the following segments: IH ( $4.6 billion ); and EH ( $9.1 billion ). 
 
 Total revenue deductions for 2016 increased 13% compared to 2015 . The increase in revenue deductions is consistent with increased sales, and was specifically as a result of: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 an increase in chargebacks from EH products, primarily due to the inclusion of a full year of legacy Hospira sterile injectables in 2016, compared to the inclusion of only four months of legacy Hospira sterile injectables in 2015 , and from certain IH products; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 an increase in performance-based contract rebates, primarily due to sales to managed care customers in the U.S. and higher rebates in certain developed Europe markets due to competitive pressures post loss of exclusivity for certain products; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 an increase in Medicaid and related state program rebates, primarily as a result of updated estimates of sales related to these programs. 
 
 For additional rebate accrual information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 1G. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies: Revenues and Trade Accounts Receivable . 
 
 Our accruals for Medicare rebates, Medicaid and related state program rebates, performance-based contract rebates, chargebacks, sales allowances and sales returns and cash discounts totaled $4.3 billion as of December 31, 2016 , of which approximately $2.8 billion is included in Other current liabilities, $357 million is included in Other noncurrent liabilities and approximately $1.2 billion is included against Trade accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful accounts , in our consolidated balance sheet. Our accruals for Medicare rebates, Medicaid and related state program rebates, performance-based contract rebates, chargebacks, sales allowances and sales returns and cash discounts totaled $3.9 billion as of December 31, 2015 , of which approximately $2.6 billion is included in Other current liabilities, $272 million is included in Other noncurrent liabilities and approximately $1.1 billion is included against Trade accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful accounts , in our consolidated balance sheet. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 23 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Revenues by Segment and Geographic Area 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following table provides worldwide revenues by operating segment and geographic area: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Worldwide 
 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 
 Worldwide 
 
 
 
 U.S. 
 
 
 
 International 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 16/15 
 
 
 
 15/14 
 
 
 
 
 
 16/15 
 
 
 
 15/14 
 
 
 
 
 
 16/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 15/14 
 
 
 
 
 Operating Segments (a) : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 IH 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 29,197 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 26,758 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 24,005 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 16,773 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 14,446 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 10,958 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 12,424 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 12,312 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 13,047 
 
 
 
 
 
 9 
 
 
 
 11 
 
 
 
 
 
 16 
 
 
 
 32 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 (6 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 EH 
 
 
 
 23,627 
 
 
 
 
 
 22,094 
 
 
 
 
 
 25,600 
 
 
 
 
 
 9,596 
 
 
 
 
 
 7,258 
 
 
 
 
 
 8,115 
 
 
 
 
 
 14,031 
 
 
 
 
 
 14,836 
 
 
 
 
 
 17,485 
 
 
 
 
 
 7 
 
 
 
 (14 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 32 
 
 
 
 (11 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (5 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (15 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Total revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 52,824 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 48,851 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 49,605 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 26,369 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 21,704 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 19,073 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 26,455 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 27,147 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 30,532 
 
 
 
 
 
 8 
 
 
 
 (2 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 21 
 
 
 
 14 
 
 
 
 
 
 (3 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (11 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 IH = the Innovative Health segment; and EH = the Essential Health segment. For additional information about each operating segment, see the “Our Strategy––Commercial Operations” section of this Financial Review and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 18A. Segment, Geographic and Other Revenue Information: Segment Information. 
 Revenues 
 
 We recorded direct product sales of more than $1 billion for each of eight products in 2016 , for each of seven products in 2015 and for each of ten products in 2014 . We recorded more than $1 billion in alliance revenues in 2016 and 2015 (primarily Eliquis). These direct product sales and alliance revenues represent 43% of our revenues in 2016 , 44% of our revenues in 2015 and 52% of our revenues in 2014 . See the Revenues—Major Products section of this Financial Review for additional information. 
 
 2016 v. 2015 
 
 See the Revenues — Overview section of this Analysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income for a discussion of performance of worldwide revenues. 
 
 Geographically, 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 in the U.S., revenues increase d $4.7 billion , or 21% , in 2016 , compared to 2015 , reflecting, among other things: 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 the inclusion of revenues from a full year of legacy Hospira U.S. operations of approximately $3.5 billion in 2016 , as compared to four months of revenues from legacy Hospira U.S. operations of $1.2 billion in 2015, resulting in growth of approximately $2.2 billion in 2016 ; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 the continued growth of several key products including Ibrance, Lyrica (IH), Eliquis, Xeljanz and Chantix (collectively, up approximately $2.8 billion in 2016 ), 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 the year-end 2015 expiry of the collaboration agreement to co-promote Rebif (down approximately $370 million in 2016 ); 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 the loss of exclusivity and associated generic competition for Zyvox (down approximately $200 million in 2016 ); and 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 the decline in revenues for the Prevnar 13 family primarily driven by the adult indication in the U.S. due to a high initial capture rate of the eligible population following its successful fourth-quarter 2014 launch, which resulted in a smaller remaining “catch up” opportunity compared to 2015 (Prevnar 13 family down approximately $380 million in 2016 ). 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 in our international markets, revenues decrease d $693 million , or 3% , in 2016 , compared to 2015 . Foreign exchange unfavorably impacted international revenues by approximately $ 1.5 billion , or 5% in 2016 . Operationally, revenues increase d approximately $790 million, or 3 %, in 2016 , compared to 2015 , reflecting, among other things: 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 the inclusion of revenues from a full year of legacy Hospira international operations of approximately $1.2 billion in 2016 , compared to the inclusion of revenues from only three months of legacy Hospira international operations of approximately $270 million in 2015; 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 the continued growth of Eliquis (up approximately $340 million in 2016 ); and 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 the continued growth from certain other products in emerging markets, excluding the contributions from legacy Hospira and Eliquis (collectively, up approximately $500 million in 2016 ), 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 lower revenues as a result of the loss of exclusivity and associated biosimilar or generic (as applicable) competition, primarily in developed Europe markets for Lyrica (EH), Enbrel and Zyvox (collectively, down approximately $770 million operationally in 2016 ). 
 In 2016 , international revenues represented 50% of total revenues, compared to 56% in 2015 . Excluding foreign exchange, international revenues in 2016 represented 51% of total revenues. 
 
 2015 v. 2014 
 
 See the Revenues — Overview section of this Analysis of the Consolidated Statements of Income for a discussion of performance of worldwide revenues. 
 
 Geographically, 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 in the U.S., revenues increased $2.6 billion , or 14% , in 2015 , compared to 2014 , reflecting, among other things: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 24 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 the performance of several key products, including Prevnar 13 primarily in adults (up approximately $1.9 billion), Ibrance (which was launched in the U.S. in February 2015, up approximately $720 million), as well as Lyrica (IH), Eliquis, Xeljanz, Viagra (IH) and Nexium 24HR (collectively, up approximately $1.0 billion in 2015 ); and 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 the inclusion of four months of legacy Hospira U.S. operations of $1.2 billion in 2015 , 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 losses of exclusivity and associated multi-source generic competition for Celebrex in the U.S. in December 2014 (down approximately $1.6 billion in 2015 ); 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 the loss of exclusivity for Zyvox and Rapamune, as well as the termination of our Spiriva co-promotion collaboration (collectively, down approximately $620 million in 2015 ); and 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 the performance of Lipitor and BeneFIX (collectively, down approximately $160 million in 2015 ). 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 in our international markets, revenues decreased $3.4 billion , or 11% , in 2015, compared to 2014 . Foreign exchange unfavorably impacted international revenues by approximately $3.8 billion, or 12% in 2015. Operationally, revenues increased by $402 million, or 1%, in 2015 compared to 2014 reflecting, among other things: 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 the operational increase in revenues in emerging markets, reflecting continued strong operational growth primarily from the IH business, including Prevenar and Enbrel, among other products, and Lipitor (up approximately $600 million in 2015 ); 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 higher revenues in developed markets for Eliquis and Lyrica (IH), as well as from vaccines acquired in December 2014 from Baxter (in Europe) (collectively, up approximately $590 million in 2015 ); and 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 the inclusion of three months of legacy Hospira international operations of $270 million in 2015 , 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 lower revenues in developed markets for Lyrica (EH), Celebrex, Inspra and Viagra (EH) as a result of the loss of exclusivity, as well as the performance of Lipitor and Norvasc in developed markets, and Zosyn/Tazocin in emerging markets (collectively, down approximately $1.0 billion in 2015 ). 
 In 2015 , international revenues represented 56% of total revenues, compared to 62% in 2014. Excluding foreign exchange, international revenues in 2015 represented 59% of total revenues. 
 
 For additional information about operating segment revenues, see the “Analysis of Operating Segment Information” section of this Financial Review. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 25 
 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Revenues—Major Products 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following table provides revenue information for several of our major products: 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 PRODUCT 
 
 PRIMARY INDICATIONS OR CLASS 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 16/15 
 
 
 
 15/14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oper. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oper. 
 
 
 
 
 TOTAL REVENUES 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 52,824 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 48,851 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 49,605 
 
 
 
 
 
 8 
 
 
 
 
 
 11 
 
 
 
 
 
 (2 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 6 
 
 
 
 
 PFIZER INNOVATIVE HEALTH (IH) (a) : 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 29,197 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 26,758 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 24,005 
 
 
 
 
 
 9 
 
 
 
 
 
 11 
 
 
 
 
 
 11 
 
 
 
 
 
 19 
 
 
 
 
 Internal Medicine 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 8,858 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 7,611 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 6,727 
 
 
 
 
 
 16 
 
 
 
 
 
 17 
 
 
 
 
 
 13 
 
 
 
 
 
 17 
 
 
 
 
 Lyrica IH (b) 
 
 
 
 Epilepsy, post-herpetic neuralgia and diabetic peripheral neuropathy, fibromyalgia, neuropathic pain due to spinal cord injury 
 
 
 
 4,165 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,655 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,350 
 
 
 
 
 
 14 
 
 
 
 
 
 14 
 
 
 
 
 
 9 
 
 
 
 
 
 13 
 
 
 
 
 Viagra IH (c) 
 
 
 
 Erectile dysfunction 
 
 
 
 1,181 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,297 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,181 
 
 
 
 
 
 (9 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (9 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 10 
 
 
 
 
 
 10 
 
 
 
 
 Chantix/Champix 
 
 
 
 An aid to smoking cessation treatment 
 
 
 
 842 
 
 
 
 
 
 671 
 
 
 
 
 
 647 
 
 
 
 
 
 26 
 
 
 
 
 
 27 
 
 
 
 
 
 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 9 
 
 
 
 
 Toviaz 
 
 
 
 Overactive bladder 
 
 
 
 258 
 
 
 
 
 
 267 
 
 
 
 
 
 288 
 
 
 
 
 
 (3 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (4 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (7 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 1 
 
 
 
 
 BMP2 
 
 
 
 Development of bone and cartilage 
 
 
 
 251 
 
 
 
 
 
 232 
 
 
 
 
 
 228 
 
 
 
 
 
 8 
 
 
 
 
 
 8 
 
 
 
 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 Alliance revenues (d) 
 
 
 
 Various 
 
 
 
 1,588 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,256 
 
 
 
 
 
 759 
 
 
 
 
 
 26 
 
 
 
 
 
 26 
 
 
 
 
 
 66 
 
 
 
 
 
 75 
 
 
 
 
 All other Internal Medicine (e) 
 
 
 
 Various 
 
 
 
 573 
 
 
 
 
 
 233 
 
 
 
 
 
 276 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 (16 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (12 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Vaccines 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 6,071 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 6,454 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 4,480 
 
 
 
 
 
 (6 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (5 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 44 
 
 
 
 
 
 51 
 
 
 
 
 Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13 
 
 
 
 Vaccines for prevention of pneumococcal disease 
 
 
 
 5,718 
 
 
 
 
 
 6,245 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,464 
 
 
 
 
 
 (8 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (7 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 40 
 
 
 
 
 
 46 
 
 
 
 
 FSME/IMMUN-TicoVac 
 
 
 
 Tick-borne encephalitis vaccine 
 
 
 
 114 
 
 
 
 
 
 104 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 10 
 
 
 
 
 
 10 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 All other Vaccines 
 
 
 
 Various 
 
 
 
 239 
 
 
 
 
 
 104 
 
 
 
 
 
 16 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 Oncology 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 4,563 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 2,955 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 2,218 
 
 
 
 
 
 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 56 
 
 
 
 
 
 33 
 
 
 
 
 
 43 
 
 
 
 
 Ibrance 
 
 
 
 Advanced breast cancer 
 
 
 
 2,135 
 
 
 
 
 
 723 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 Sutent 
 
 
 
 Advanced and/or metastatic RCC, refractory GIST and advanced pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor 
 
 
 
 1,095 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,120 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,174 
 
 
 
 
 
 (2 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 (5 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 7 
 
 
 
 
 Xalkori 
 
 
 
 ALK-positive NSCLC and ROS1-positive NSCLC 
 
 
 
 561 
 
 
 
 
 
 488 
 
 
 
 
 
 438 
 
 
 
 
 
 15 
 
 
 
 
 
 17 
 
 
 
 
 
 11 
 
 
 
 
 
 20 
 
 
 
 
 Inlyta 
 
 
 
 Advanced RCC 
 
 
 
 401 
 
 
 
 
 
 430 
 
 
 
 
 
 410 
 
 
 
 
 
 (7 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (6 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 5 
 
 
 
 
 
 14 
 
 
 
 
 Xtandi alliance revenues 
 
 
 
 Advanced prostate cancer 
 
 
 
 140 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 All other Oncology 
 
 
 
 Various 
 
 
 
 231 
 
 
 
 
 
 194 
 
 
 
 
 
 195 
 
 
 
 
 
 19 
 
 
 
 
 
 19 
 
 
 
 
 
 (1 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 5 
 
 
 
 
 Inflammation & Immunology (I&I) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 3,928 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 3,918 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 4,241 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 6 
 
 
 
 
 
 (8 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 6 
 
 
 
 
 Enbrel (Outside the U.S. and Canada) 
 
 
 
 Rheumatoid, juvenile rheumatoid and psoriatic arthritis, plaque psoriasis and ankylosing spondylitis 
 
 
 
 2,909 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,333 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,850 
 
 
 
 
 
 (13 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (6 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (13 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 1 
 
 
 
 
 Xeljanz 
 
 
 
 Rheumatoid arthritis 
 
 
 
 927 
 
 
 
 
 
 523 
 
 
 
 
 
 308 
 
 
 
 
 
 77 
 
 
 
 
 
 78 
 
 
 
 
 
 70 
 
 
 
 
 
 72 
 
 
 
 
 All othe r I&I 
 
 
 
 Various 
 
 
 
 93 
 
 
 
 
 
 61 
 
 
 
 
 
 82 
 
 
 
 
 
 51 
 
 
 
 
 
 42 
 
 
 
 
 
 (25 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (13 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Rare Disease 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 2,369 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 2,425 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 2,893 
 
 
 
 
 
 (2 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (16 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (7 
 
 ) 
 
 
 BeneFIX 
 
 
 
 Hemophilia 
 
 
 
 712 
 
 
 
 
 
 752 
 
 
 
 
 
 856 
 
 
 
 
 
 (5 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (4 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (12 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (5 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Genotropin 
 
 
 
 Replacement of human growth hormone 
 
 
 
 579 
 
 
 
 
 
 617 
 
 
 
 
 
 723 
 
 
 
 
 
 (6 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (5 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (15 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (4 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Refacto AF/Xyntha 
 
 
 
 Hemophilia 
 
 
 
 554 
 
 
 
 
 
 533 
 
 
 
 
 
 631 
 
 
 
 
 
 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 8 
 
 
 
 
 
 (16 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (5 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Somavert 
 
 
 
 Acromegaly 
 
 
 
 232 
 
 
 
 
 
 218 
 
 
 
 
 
 229 
 
 
 
 
 
 6 
 
 
 
 
 
 8 
 
 
 
 
 
 (5 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 7 
 
 
 
 
 Rapamune 
 
 
 
 Prevention of organ rejection in kidney transplantation 
 
 
 
 170 
 
 
 
 
 
 197 
 
 
 
 
 
 339 
 
 
 
 
 
 (14 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (7 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (42 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (36 
 
 ) 
 
 
 All other Rare Disease 
 
 
 
 Various 
 
 
 
 122 
 
 
 
 
 
 108 
 
 
 
 
 
 114 
 
 
 
 
 
 13 
 
 
 
 
 
 11 
 
 
 
 
 
 (4 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 10 
 
 
 
 
 Consumer Healthcare 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 3,407 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 3,395 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 3,446 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 5 
 
 
 
 
 
 (1 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 5 
 
 
 
 
 PFIZER ESSENTIAL HEALTH (EH) (f) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 23,627 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 22,094 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 25,600 
 
 
 
 
 
 7 
 
 
 
 
 
 11 
 
 
 
 
 
 (14 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (6 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Legacy Established Products (LEP) (g) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 11,194 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 11,745 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 13,016 
 
 
 
 
 
 (5 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (10 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (2 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Lipitor 
 
 
 
 Reduction of LDL cholesterol 
 
 
 
 1,758 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,860 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,061 
 
 
 
 
 
 (6 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 (10 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (4 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Premarin family 
 
 
 
 Symptoms of menopause 
 
 
 
 1,017 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,018 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,076 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (5 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (4 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Norvasc 
 
 
 
 Hypertension 
 
 
 
 962 
 
 
 
 
 
 991 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,112 
 
 
 
 
 
 (3 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 (11 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (3 
 
 ) 
 
 
 EpiPen 
 
 
 
 Epinephrine injection used in treatment of life-threatening allergic reactions 
 
 
 
 386 
 
 
 
 
 
 339 
 
 
 
 
 
 294 
 
 
 
 
 
 14 
 
 
 
 
 
 14 
 
 
 
 
 
 15 
 
 
 
 
 
 19 
 
 
 
 
 Xalatan/Xalacom 
 
 
 
 Glaucoma and ocular hypertension 
 
 
 
 363 
 
 
 
 
 
 399 
 
 
 
 
 
 495 
 
 
 
 
 
 (9 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (8 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (19 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (6 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Relpax 
 
 
 
 Symptoms of migraine headache 
 
 
 
 323 
 
 
 
 
 
 352 
 
 
 
 
 
 382 
 
 
 
 
 
 (8 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (8 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (8 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (2 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Zoloft 
 
 
 
 Depression and certain anxiety disorders 
 
 
 
 304 
 
 
 
 
 
 374 
 
 
 
 
 
 423 
 
 
 
 
 
 (19 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (14 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (12 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (1 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Effexor 
 
 
 
 Depression and certain anxiety disorders 
 
 
 
 278 
 
 
 
 
 
 288 
 
 
 
 
 
 344 
 
 
 
 
 
 (3 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (16 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (8 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Zithromax/Zmax 
 
 
 
 Bacterial infections 
 
 
 
 272 
 
 
 
 
 
 275 
 
 
 
 
 
 311 
 
 
 
 
 
 (1 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 (11 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (3 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Xanax/Xanax XR 
 
 
 
 Anxiety disorders 
 
 
 
 222 
 
 
 
 
 
 224 
 
 
 
 
 
 253 
 
 
 
 
 
 (1 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 (11 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 Cardura 
 
 
 
 Hypertension/Benign prostatic hyperplasia 
 
 
 
 192 
 
 
 
 
 
 210 
 
 
 
 
 
 263 
 
 
 
 
 
 (9 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (6 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (20 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (9 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Neurontin 
 
 
 
 Seizures 
 
 
 
 182 
 
 
 
 
 
 196 
 
 
 
 
 
 210 
 
 
 
 
 
 (7 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 (7 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 Tikosyn 
 
 
 
 Maintenance of normal sinus rhythm, conversion of atrial fibrillation/flutter 
 
 
 
 153 
 
 
 
 
 
 179 
 
 
 
 
 
 141 
 
 
 
 
 
 (15 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (15 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 27 
 
 
 
 
 
 27 
 
 
 
 
 Depo-Provera 
 
 
 
 Contraceptive 
 
 
 
 126 
 
 
 
 
 
 170 
 
 
 
 
 
 201 
 
 
 
 
 
 (26 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (22 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (15 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (10 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Diflucan 
 
 
 
 Fungal infections 
 
 
 
 119 
 
 
 
 
 
 181 
 
 
 
 
 
 208 
 
 
 
 
 
 (34 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (30 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (13 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (3 
 
 ) 
 
 
 All other LEP 
 
 
 
 Various 
 
 
 
 4,538 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,689 
 
 
 
 
 
 5,242 
 
 
 
 
 
 (3 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 (11 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (2 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 26 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 PRODUCT 
 
 PRIMARY INDICATIONS OR CLASS 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 16/15 
 
 
 
 15/14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oper. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 
 
 Oper. 
 
 
 
 
 Sterile Injectable Pharmaceuticals (SIP) (h) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 6,018 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 3,944 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 3,277 
 
 
 
 
 
 53 
 
 
 
 
 
 56 
 
 
 
 
 
 20 
 
 
 
 
 
 27 
 
 
 
 
 Medrol 
 
 
 
 Adrenocortical steroid 
 
 
 
 450 
 
 
 
 
 
 402 
 
 
 
 
 
 381 
 
 
 
 
 
 12 
 
 
 
 
 
 16 
 
 
 
 
 
 5 
 
 
 
 
 
 12 
 
 
 
 
 Sulperazon 
 
 
 
 Antibiotic 
 
 
 
 396 
 
 
 
 
 
 339 
 
 
 
 
 
 354 
 
 
 
 
 
 17 
 
 
 
 
 
 23 
 
 
 
 
 
 (4 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (1 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Fragmin 
 
 
 
 Anticoagulant 
 
 
 
 318 
 
 
 
 
 
 335 
 
 
 
 
 
 364 
 
 
 
 
 
 (5 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (8 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 5 
 
 
 
 
 Tygacil 
 
 
 
 Antibiotic 
 
 
 
 274 
 
 
 
 
 
 304 
 
 
 
 
 
 323 
 
 
 
 
 
 (10 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (5 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (6 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 3 
 
 
 
 
 All other SIP 
 
 
 
 Various 
 
 
 
 4,579 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,563 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,855 
 
 
 
 
 
 79 
 
 
 
 
 
 81 
 
 
 
 
 
 38 
 
 
 
 
 
 44 
 
 
 
 
 Peri-LOE Products (i) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 4,220 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 5,326 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 8,855 
 
 
 
 
 
 (21 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (18 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (40 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (32 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Lyrica EH (b) 
 
 
 
 Epilepsy, neuropathic pain and generalized anxiety disorder 
 
 
 
 801 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,183 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,818 
 
 
 
 
 
 (32 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (29 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (35 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (23 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Celebrex 
 
 
 
 Arthritis pain and inflammation, acute pain 
 
 
 
 733 
 
 
 
 
 
 830 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,699 
 
 
 
 
 
 (12 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (10 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (69 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (66 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Pristiq 
 
 
 
 Depression 
 
 
 
 732 
 
 
 
 
 
 715 
 
 
 
 
 
 737 
 
 
 
 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 (3 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 1 
 
 
 
 
 Vfend 
 
 
 
 Fungal infections 
 
 
 
 590 
 
 
 
 
 
 682 
 
 
 
 
 
 756 
 
 
 
 
 
 (13 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (10 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (10 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 3 
 
 
 
 
 Zyvox 
 
 
 
 Bacterial infections 
 
 
 
 421 
 
 
 
 
 
 883 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,352 
 
 
 
 
 
 (52 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (49 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (35 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (27 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Viagra EH (c) 
 
 
 
 Erectile dysfunction 
 
 
 
 383 
 
 
 
 
 
 411 
 
 
 
 
 
 504 
 
 
 
 
 
 (7 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (1 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (18 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (8 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Revatio 
 
 
 
 Pulmonary arterial hypertension 
 
 
 
 285 
 
 
 
 
 
 260 
 
 
 
 
 
 276 
 
 
 
 
 
 10 
 
 
 
 
 
 10 
 
 
 
 
 
 (6 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 7 
 
 
 
 
 All Other Peri-LOE Products 
 
 
 
 Various 
 
 
 
 276 
 
 
 
 
 
 362 
 
 
 
 
 
 714 
 
 
 
 
 
 (24 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (21 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (49 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (42 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Infusion Systems (j) 
 
 
 
 Various 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,158 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 403 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 Biosimilars (k) 
 
 
 
 Various 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 319 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 63 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 Inflectra/Remsima 
 
 
 
 Inflammatory diseases 
 
 
 
 192 
 
 
 
 
 
 30 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 All Other Biosimilars 
 
 
 
 Various 
 
 
 
 127 
 
 
 
 
 
 33 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 Pfizer CentreOne (l) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 718 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 612 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 451 
 
 
 
 
 
 17 
 
 
 
 
 
 18 
 
 
 
 
 
 36 
 
 
 
 
 
 44 
 
 
 
 
 Total Lyrica (b) 
 
 
 
 Epilepsy, post-herpetic neuralgia and diabetic peripheral neuropathy, fibromyalgia, neuropathic pain due to spinal cord injury 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 4,966 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 4,839 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 5,168 
 
 
 
 
 
 3 
 
 
 
 
 
 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 (6 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Total Viagra (c) 
 
 
 
 Erectile dysfunction 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,564 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,708 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,685 
 
 
 
 
 
 (8 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (7 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 5 
 
 
 
 
 Total Alliance revenues 
 
 
 
 Various 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,746 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,312 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 957 
 
 
 
 
 
 33 
 
 
 
 
 
 33 
 
 
 
 
 
 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 The IH business, previously known as the Innovative Products business, encompasses Internal Medicine, Vaccines, Oncology, Inflammation & Immunology, Rare Disease and Consumer Healthcare and includes all legacy Anacor and Medivation commercial operations. Anacor’s and Medivation’s commercial operations are included in IH’s operating results in our consolidated statements of income, commencing from the acquisition date of June 24, 2016 for Anacor and from the acquisition date of September 28, 2016 for Medivation. As a result, IH’s revenues for 2016 reflect approximately six months of legacy Anacor operations, which were immaterial, and three months of legacy Medivation operations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 Lyrica revenues from all of Europe, Russia, Turkey, Israel and Central Asia countries are included in Lyrica EH. All other Lyrica revenues are included in Lyrica-IH. Total Lyrica revenues represent the aggregate of worldwide revenues from Lyrica IH and Lyrica EH. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 Viagra revenues from the U.S. and Canada are included in Viagra IH. All other Viagra revenues are included in Viagra EH. Total Viagra revenues represent the aggregate of worldwide revenues from Viagra IH and Viagra EH. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) 
 
 Includes Eliquis, (2016 and 2015) and Rebif (2015 only). 
 
 
 
 
 
 (e) 
 
 Includes Eliquis direct sales markets. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (f) 
 
 The EH business, previously known as the Established Products business, encompasses Legacy Established Products, Sterile Injectable Pharmaceuticals, Peri-LOE Products, Infusion Systems (through February 2, 2017), Biosimilars and Pfizer CentreOne and includes all legacy Hospira commercial operations. For additional information about changes impacting EH, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 18A. Segment, Geographic and Other Revenue Information: Segment Information. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (g) 
 
 Legacy Established Products include products that have lost patent protection (excluding Sterile Injectable Pharmaceuticals and Peri-LOE Products). 
 
 
 
 
 
 (h) 
 
 Sterile Injectable Pharmaceuticals include generic injectables and proprietary specialty injectables (excluding Peri-LOE Products). 
 
 
 
 
 
 (i) 
 
 Peri-LOE Products include products that have recently lost or are anticipated to soon lose patent protection. These products primarily include Lyrica in certain developed Europe markets, Pristiq globally, Celebrex, Zyvox and Revatio in most developed markets, Vfend and Viagra in certain developed Europe markets and Japan, and Inspra in the EU. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (j) 
 
 Infusion Systems (through February 2, 2017) include Medication Management Systems products composed of infusion pumps and related software and services, as well as IV Infusion Products, including large volume IV solutions and their associated administration sets. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (k) 
 
 Biosimilars include Inflectra/Remsima (biosimilar infliximab) in the U.S. and certain international markets, Nivestim (biosimilar filgrastim) in certain European, Asian and Africa/Middle East markets and Retacrit (biosimilar epoetin zeta) in certain European and Africa/Middle East markets. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (l) 
 
 Pfizer CentreOne includes (i) revenues from legacy Pfizer's contract manufacturing and active pharmaceutical ingredient sales operation (previously known as Pfizer CentreSource or PCS), including revenues related to our manufacturing and supply agreements with Zoetis and (ii) revenues from legacy Hospira’s One-2-One sterile injectables contract manufacturing operation. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 18A. Segment, Geographic and Other Revenue Information: Segment Information. 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 Indicates calculation not meaningful or greater than 100%. 
 
 Revenues—Selected Product Descriptions 
 
 Compared to 2015 , international revenues were favorably impacted in 2016 as a result of having one more selling day in international markets. In the U.S., there was no difference in selling days in 2016 , compared to 2015 . 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13 (IH) is our pneumococcal conjugate vaccine for the prevention of pneumococcal disease. Overall, worldwide revenues for Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13 decreased 7% operationally in 2016 , compared to 2015 . Foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on worldwide revenues of 1% in 2016 , compared to 2015 . 
 In the U.S., revenues for Prevnar 13 decrease d 9% in 2016 , compared to 2015 , primarily driven by the decline in revenues for the adult indication in the U.S. due to a high initial capture rate of the eligible population following its successful fourth-quarter 2014 launch, which resulted in a smaller remaining “catch up” opportunity (i.e. the opportunity to reach adults age 65 and older who have not been previously vaccinated with Prevnar 13) compared to the prior year. Given the success since the launch of the adult indication, approximately 50% of the eligible patient pool 65 years and above in the U.S. has already been vaccinated. While the remaining eligible population is large, this cohort is much more difficult to capture. The decrease was partially offset by the timing of government purchases for the pediatric indication. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 27 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Internationally, revenues for Prevenar 13 decrease d 3% operationally in 2016 , compared to 2015 , primarily due to timing of government orders, partially offset by a modest increase in the uptake for the adult indication. Foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on international revenues of 3% in 2016 , compared to 2015 . 
 In 2014, the ACIP voted to recommend Prevnar 13 for routine use to help protect adults aged 65 years and older against pneumococcal disease, which for adults includes pneumonia caused by the 13 pneumococcal serotypes included in the vaccine. These ACIP recommendations were subsequently approved by the directors at the CDC and U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, and were published in the Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report in September 2014 by the CDC. As with other vaccines, the CDC regularly monitors the impact of vaccination and reviews the recommendations; in this case, however, the CDC announced formally that it will conduct this review in 2018. Currently, we are working with a number of U.S. investigators to monitor the proportion of community-acquired pneumonia caused by the serotypes included in Prevnar 13 and continue to observe trends. 
 In July 2016, the FDA approved an expanded age indication to include adults 18 through 49 years of age, in addition to the already approved indications for adults 50 years and older, for active immunization for the prevention of pneumonia and invasive disease caused by 13 Streptococcus pneumoniae ( S. pneumoniae ) serotypes (1, 3, 4, 5, 6A, 6B, 7F, 9V, 14, 18C, 19A, 19F, and 23F), and for children 6 weeks through 17 years of age (prior to the 18th birthday) for the prevention of invasive disease caused by the 13 S treptococcus pneumoniae strains in the vaccine. Prevenar 13 is now approved in the U.S., the EU and more than 40 other countries for use in adults 18 to 49 years of age. Prevnar 13 is the only pneumococcal vaccine approved across the entire lifespan. 
 In April 2016, the EMA approved a new 4-dose, MDV presentation for Prevenar 13. In addition, in July 2016, we received the World Health Organization pre-qualification approval for the Prevenar 13 MDV presentation. This MDV presentation is being introduced under the Advance Market Commitment program in early 2017, for shipment to countries covered by Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance. This new presentation will help to significantly reduce storage requirements and shipping costs in Gavi eligible countries. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Lyrica (EH (revenues from all of Europe, Russia, Turkey, Israel and Central Asia)/IH (revenues from all other geographies)) is indicated in the U.S. for three neuropathic pain conditions, fibromyalgia and adjunctive therapy for adult patients with partial onset seizures. In certain markets outside the U.S., indications include neuropathic pain (peripheral and central), fibromyalgia, adjunctive treatment of epilepsy and generalized anxiety disorder. Worldwide revenues for Lyrica increase d 4% operationally in 2016 , compared to 2015 . Foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on worldwide revenues of 1% in 2016 , compared to 2015 . 
 In the U.S., revenues increased 18% in 2016 , compared to 2015 , driven by increased demand and positive price impact. 
 Internationally, Lyrica revenues decrease d 14% operationally in 2016 , compared to 2015 , primarily due to losses of exclusivity in developed Europe markets and a new National Health Insurance (NHI) price in Japan starting in April 2016, partially offset by operational growth in certain markets, primarily in Australia, Asia and Africa and Middle East. Foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on international revenues of 2% in 2016 , compared to 2015 . 
 Lyrica revenues in our IH segment increase d 14% operationally in 2016 , compared to 2015. Foreign exchange had a de minimis impact on Lyrica (IH) revenues in 2016 , compared to 2015 . In our EH segment, revenues from Lyrica decrease d 29% operationally in 2016 , compared to 2015. Foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of 3% on Lyrica (EH) revenues in 2016 , compared to 2015 . 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Enbrel (IH, outside the U.S. and Canada), indicated for the treatment of moderate-to-severe rheumatoid arthritis, juvenile idiopathic arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, plaque psoriasis, pediatric plaque psoriasis, ankylosing spondylitis and nonradiographic axial spondyloarthritis, recorded an operational decrease of 6% in worldwide revenues, excluding the U.S. and Canada, in 2016 , compared to 2015, primarily due to the impact of the entrance of the first etanercept biosimilar, as well as mandated price reductions across certain markets in Europe, partially offset by stronger demand and price increases in emerging markets, specifically in Latin America. Foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on revenues of 7% in 2016 , compared to 2015 . 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Ibrance (IH) was launched in the U.S. in February 2015, and subsequently in certain international markets as a treatment for a certain form of advanced breast cancer. Ibrance recorded worldwide revenues of $2.1 billion in 2016 , nearly all of which were recorded in the U.S. The significant revenues relate to the strength of our scientific/clinical data, continued positive patient experience as well as Ibrance being the only registered product in this class of medicines in any country as of December 2016. Ibrance is currently approved in the U.S. and 57 other countries. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Lipitor (EH) is indicated for the treatment of elevated LDL-cholesterol levels in the blood. Lipitor faces generic competition in all major developed markets. Worldwide revenues for Lipitor increase d 2% operationally in 2016 , compared to 2015 . Foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on worldwide revenues of 8% in 2016 , compared to 2015 . 
 In the U.S., revenues increase d 2% in 2016 , compared to 2015, primarily due to favorable rebates. 
 In our international markets, revenues increase d 2% operationally in 2016 , compared to 2015, driven by strong volume growth in China, partially offset by lower volumes in certain other emerging markets, primarily in the Middle East and Latin America and in developed international markets, as well as pricing pressures in China. Foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on international revenues of 8% in 2016 , compared to 2015 . 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Viagra (IH (U.S. and Canada revenues)/EH (all other revenues excluding U.S. and Canada)) is indicated for the treatment of erectile dysfunction. Viagra worldwide revenues decrease d 7% operationally in 2016 , compared to 2015 , primarily due to new access constraints and increased rebates. Foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on worldwide revenues of 2% in 2016 , compared to 2015 . Revenues in the U.S. decrease d 9% in 2016 , compared to 2015 , primarily reflecting new access constraints and increases in rebates, partially offset by increases in pill quantity per prescription, higher sales to the Department of Veterans Affairs and the Department of Defense and shifts in wholesaler buying patterns. International revenues decrease d 1% operationally in 2016 , compared to 2015 , primarily from lower volumes in China and in developed international markets. Foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on international revenues of 6% in 2016 , compared to 2015 . 
 Viagra revenues in our IH segment decrease d 9% operationally in 2016 , compared to 2015. Foreign exchange had a de minimis impact on Viagra IH revenues in 2016 , compared to 2015 . In our EH segment, revenues from Viagra decrease d 1% operationally in 2016 , compared to 2015. Foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of 6% on Viagra EH revenues in 2016 , compared to 2015 . 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Sutent (IH) is indicated for the treatment of advanced renal cell carcinoma, including metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mRCC); GIST after disease progression on, or intolerance to, imatinib mesylate; and advanced pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor. Sutent worldwide revenues increase d 1% operationally in 2016 , compared to 2015 , primarily due to price increases in the U.S., as well as strong demand in Japan 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 28 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 and key emerging markets, offset by strong competitive pressure and cost containment measure in certain developed international markets. Foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on worldwide revenues of 3% in 2016 , compared to 2015 . 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Our Premarin family of products (EH) helps women address moderate-to-severe menopausal symptoms. Premarin worldwide revenues were relatively flat operationally in 2016 , compared to 2015 . Revenues in the U.S. increase d 1% in 2016 , compared to 2015 , primarily driven by price increases, partially offset by prescription volume declines and lower market growth. Internationally, Premarin revenues decrease d 1% operationally in 2016 , compared to 2015 , primarily due to lower volume in developed markets and certain markets in Africa. Foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on international revenues of 9% in 2016 , compared to 2015 . 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Norvasc (EH) is indicated for the treatment of hypertension. Norvasc worldwide revenues increase d 1% operationally in 2016 , compared to 2015 . Results for 2016 were primarily impacted by strong demand in China, offset by generic erosion in Japan. Foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on worldwide revenues of 4% in 2016 , compared to 2015 . 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Xeljanz (IH) is approved for use as a second-line therapy for the treatment of adult patients with moderate to severe active rheumatoid arthritis who have had an inadequate response or intolerance to methotrexate and is approved in over 50 markets including the U.S., Japan, Australia, Turkey, Canada, Switzerland and Brazil. Xeljanz worldwide revenues increase d 78% operationally in 2016 , compared to 2015 . In the U.S., Xeljanz revenues increased 71% in 2016 , compared to 2015 , driven by increased adoption among rheumatologists, growing awareness among patients, improvements in payer access and price increases. Xeljanz recorded international revenues of $122 million in 2016 . Foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on worldwide revenues of 1% in 2016 , compared to 2015 . 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Chantix/Champix (IH) is approved as an aid to smoking-cessation treatment in adults 18 years of age and older in more than 100 countries. Worldwide revenues increase d 27% operationally in 2016 , compared to 2015 . Foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on worldwide revenues of 1% in 2016 , compared to 2015 . 
 In the U.S., Chantix revenues increase d 40% in 2016 , compared to 2015 , primarily due to price increases, increased demand due to more effective branded direct-to-consumer campaigns, promotion of the Gradual Quit Approach and continued expansion of unrestricted managed care coverage. 
 Internationally, Champix revenues increase d 4% operationally in 2016 , compared to 2015 , primarily due to growth in South Korea (driven by reforms to the government sponsored smoking cessation subsidy program), momentum of consumer digital initiatives in Spain and growth in the Netherlands, partially offset by market contraction in Japan and the timing of government purchases in Turkey. Foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on international revenues of 3% in 2016 , compared to 2015 . 
 In December 2016, the FDA approved updates to the Chantix labeling, including removal of the boxed warning regarding serious neuropsychiatric events. The removal of the boxed warning is based on the outcomes of EAGLES, the largest smoking cessation clinical trial in patients without and with a history of psychiatric disorder, and is consistent with the recommendation of the FDA Psychopharmacologic Drugs and Drug Safety and Risk Management Advisory Committees. Additional labeling revisions based on EAGLES include updates to the corresponding warning regarding neuropsychiatric safety and the addition of information on the superior efficacy of Chantix compared to bupropion or nicotine patch. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Celebrex (EH) is indicated for the treatment of the signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis worldwide and for the management of acute pain in adults in the U.S., Japan and certain other markets. Celebrex worldwide revenues decrease d 10% operationally in 2016 , compared to 2015 , primarily driven by the loss of exclusivity and associated generic competition in the U.S. and most developed international markets, partially offset by growth in China and lower chargebacks and favorable rebates in the U.S. Foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on worldwide revenues of 2% in 2016 , compared to 2015. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Pristiq (EH) is indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder in the U.S. and in various other countries. Pristiq has also been indicated for treatment of moderate-to-severe vasomotor symptoms associated with menopause in certain international markets. Worldwide revenues for Pristiq increase d 4% operationally in 2016 , compared to 2015 , primarily due to growth in the U.S. Foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on worldwide revenues of 1% in 2016 , compared to 2015 . 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 BeneFIX and ReFacto AF/Xyntha (IH) are recombinant hemophilia products that assist patients with their lifelong hemophilia bleeding disorders. BeneFIX worldwide revenues decrease d 4% operationally in 2016 , compared to 2015 , primarily as a result of erosion of market share in the U.S. and European countries due to the launch of new extended half-life treatment options. Foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on worldwide revenues of 2% in 2016 , compared to 2015 . 
 ReFacto AF/Xyntha recorded an 8% operational increase in 2016 , compared to 2015 , largely due to product demand across Europe and certain other international markets. Foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on worldwide revenues of 4% in 2016 , compared to 2015 . In the U.S., ReFacto AF/Xyntha revenues increase d 5% in 2016 , compared to 2015 , mostly due to a price increase. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Xalkori (IH) is indicated for the treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC that is ALK-positive or ROS1-positive. Xalkori worldwide revenues increase d 17% operationally in 2016 , compared to 2015, as a result of a steady increase in diagnostic rates for the ALK gene mutation across key markets, which has led to more patients being treated, and the March 2016 FDA approval of the supplemental NDA to treat patients with metastatic NSCLC whose tumors are ROS1-positive . Foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on worldwide revenues of 2% in 2016 , compared to 2015 . 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Zyvox (EH) is used to treat serious Gram-positive pathogens, including methicillin-resistant staphylococcus-aureus. Zyvox worldwide revenues decrease d 49% operationally in 2016 , compared to 2015 , due to generic competition in the U.S. and developed international markets and corresponding pricing pressures. Foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact on worldwide revenues of 3% in 2016 , compared to 2015 . 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Inlyta (IH) is indicated for the treatment of patients with advanced RCC after failure of a prior systemic treatment. Worldwide revenues decrease d 6% operationally in 2016 , compared to 2015 , primarily due to increased competition in North America and Europe, partially offset by performance in China, as well as Australia, Argentina and Brazil. Foreign exchange had a de minimis impact on worldwide revenues in 2016 , compared to 2015 . 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Inflectra/Remsima (EH), a biosimilar of Remicade® (infliximab), is indicated for the treatment of patients with certain inflammatory diseases. In 2009, Hospira entered into an agreement to develop and market certain biosimilar molecules with Celltrion including Inflectra. Pfizer has exclusive commercialization rights to Inflectra in the U.S., Canada and certain other territories. Pfizer also shares Inflectra commercialization rights with Celltrion in Europe. In Europe, Inflectra has now launched in 38 markets. In December 2014, Hospira launched Inflectra in Canada. In April 2016, the FDA approved Inflectra (infliximab-dyyb) across all eligible indications of Remicade®. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 29 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 In the fourth quarter of 2016, Pfizer launched Inflectra in the U.S., beginning with shipments to wholesalers on November 21, 2016. Patent litigation associated with Inflectra is ongoing, in which Janssen and New York University allege that the marketing of Inflectra in the U.S. would infringe one or more patents. If an appellate court ultimately holds such patents are valid and infringed, we could be liable for patent infringement damages, including the possibility of owing Janssen its lost profits, and/or a requirement to cease selling Inflectra in the U.S. during the term of one or more of any valid, infringed patents. 
 Inflectra/Remsima worldwide revenues were $192 million in 2016 . 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Alliance revenues (IH/EH) increase d 33% operationally in 2016 , compared to 2015 , mainly due to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 an increase in Eliquis alliance revenues due to increased market share; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 the inclusion of Xtandi revenues of $140 million in the U.S. resulting from the acquisition of Medivation in September 2016, 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 the year-end 2015 expiry of the collaboration agreement to co-promote Rebif in the U.S., which resulted in a decrease of approximately $370 million in 2016 , compared to 2015 . 
 Foreign exchange had a de minimis impact on alliance revenues in 2016 , compared to 2015 . 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 Eliquis (IH) has been jointly developed and is commercialized by Pfizer and BMS. Pfizer funds between 50% and 60% of all development costs depending on the study. Profits and losses are shared equally on a global basis except for in certain countries where Pfizer commercializes Eliquis and pays BMS compensation based on a percentage of net sales. In April 2015, we signed an agreement with BMS to transfer full commercialization rights in certain smaller markets to us, beginning in the third quarter of 2015. BMS supplies the product to us at cost plus a percentage of the net sales to end-customers in these markets. Eliquis is part of the Novel Oral Anticoagulant (NOAC) market; the agents in this class were developed as alternative treatment options to warfarin in appropriate patients. Eliquis (apixaban) is approved for multiple indications in major markets around the world: 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 to reduce the risk of stroke and systemic embolism in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation; 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 for the treatment of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and PE, and for the reduction in the risk of recurrent DVT and PE following initial therapy; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 for the prophylaxis of DVT, which may lead to PE, in patients who have undergone hip or knee replacement surgery. 
 Eliquis utilization and adoption continues to expand across key markets. It is now the number one prescribed NOAC among cardiologists in the U.S., Japan and several European countries. 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 Xtandi (IH) is being developed and commercialized through a collaboration between Pfizer and Astellas. The two companies share equally in the gross profits (losses) related to U.S. net sales of Xtandi. Subject to certain exceptions, Pfizer and Astellas also share equally all Xtandi commercialization costs attributable to the U.S. market. Pfizer and Astellas also share certain development and other collaboration expenses and Pfizer receives tiered royalties as a percentage of international Xtandi net sales (recorded in Other (income)/deductions––net ). Xtandi is approved for the following indications: 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 treatment of patients with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer in the U.S., Europe and many other countries worldwide; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 treatment of patients with castration-resistant prostate cancer in Japan. 
 Post-acquisition on September 28, 2016, Pfizer recorded $140 million of Xtandi alliance revenues in 2016 , all of which was attributed to the U.S. 
 See the “Our Operating Environment—Industry-Specific Challenges—Intellectual Property Rights and Collaboration/Licensing Rights” section of this Financial Review for information regarding the expiration of various contract rights relating to Enbrel and Rebif. 
 
 See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 17. Commitments and Contingencies for a discussion of recent developments concerning patent and product litigation relating to certain of the products discussed above. 
 
 PRODUCT DEVELOPMENTS—BIOPHARMACEUTICAL 
 
 We continue to invest in R&D to provide potential future sources of revenues through the development of new products, as well as through additional uses for in-line and alliance products. Notwithstanding our efforts, there are no assurances as to when, or if, we will receive regulatory approval for additional indications for existing products or any of our other products in development. 
 
 We continue to strengthen our global R&D organization and pursue strategies intended to improve innovation and overall productivity in R&D to achieve a sustainable pipeline that will deliver value in the near term and over time. Our R&D priorities include: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 delivering a pipeline of differentiated therapies with the greatest scientific and commercial promise; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 innovating new capabilities that can position Pfizer for long-term leadership; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 creating new models for biomedical collaboration that will expedite the pace of innovation and productivity. 
 
 Our R&D primarily focuses on: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Biosimilars; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Inflammation and Immunology; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Metabolic Disease and Cardiovascular Risks; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Neuroscience; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Oncology 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Rare Diseases; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Vaccines. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 30 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 In addition, we pursue biosimilars, which are being developed by our EH R&D organization. For additional information about the new EH R&D organization, see the “Overview of Our Performance, Operating Environment, Strategy and Outlook—Our Strategy—Commercial Operations” section of this Financial Review. 
 
 A comprehensive update of Pfizer’s development pipeline was published on January 31, 2017 and is available at www.pfizer.com/pipeline. It includes an overview of our research and a list of compounds in development with targeted indication and phase of development, as well as mechanism of action for candidates from Phase 2 through registration. 
 
 The following series of tables provides information about significant regulatory actions by, and filings pending with, the FDA and regulatory authorities in the EU and Japan, as well as additional indications and new drug candidates in late-stage development. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 RECENT FDA APPROVALS 
 
 
 PRODUCT 
 
 INDICATION 
 
 DATE APPROVED 
 
 
 Eucrisa (Crisaborole) 
 
 A non-steroidal topical anti-inflammatory PDE-4 inhibitor for the treatment of mild-to-moderate atopic dermatitis 
 
 December 2016 
 
 
 Troxyca (oxycodone HCI/ 
 naltrexone/HCI) 
 
 Extended-release capsules for the management of pain severe enough to require daily, around-the-clock long-term opioid treatment and for which alternative treatment options are inadequate 
 
 August 2016 
 
 
 Xalkori (Crizotinib) 
 
 Treatment of patients with ROS1-positive metastatic non-small cell lung cancer 
 
 March 2016 
 
 
 Xeljanz (Tofacitinib) 
 
 Extended-release 11mg tablets for the once-daily treatment of moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis in patients who have had an inadequate response or intolerance to methotrexate 
 
 February 2016 
 
 
 Ibrance (Palbociclib) 
 
 Treatment of HR+, HER2- advanced or metastatic breast cancer in combination with fulvestrant in women with disease progression following endocrine therapy 
 
 February 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PENDING U.S. NDAs AND SUPPLEMENTAL FILINGS 
 
 
 PRODUCT 
 
 PROPOSED INDICATION 
 
 DATE FILED * 
 
 
 Inotuzumab ozogamicin 
 
 Treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukemia 
 
 February 2017 
 
 
 Lyrica (Pregabalin) 
 
 Controlled Release (once-a-day) dosing 
 
 February 2017 
 
 
 Mylotarg ( Gemtuzumab 
 ozogamicin) 
 
 Treatment of acute myeloid leukemia 
 
 January 2017 
 
 
 Avelumab (PF-06834635) 
 (MSB0010718C) 
 
 Treatment of metastatic Merkel cell carcinoma 
 
 
 November 2016 
 
 
 Retacrit (a) 
 
 A potential biosimilar to Epogen® and Procrit® (epotein alfa) 
 
 February 2015 
 
 
 Tafamidis meglumine (b) 
 
 Treatment of transthyretin familial amyloid polyneuropathy 
 
 February 2012 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 The dates set forth in this column are the dates on which the FDA accepted our submissions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 Epogen® is a registered U.S. trademark of Amgen Inc.; Procrit® is a registered U.S. trademark of Johnson & Johnson. In October 2015, we received a “complete response” letter from the FDA with respect to our biologics license application for Retacrit, our proposed biosimilar to epoetin alfa, which was submitted for all indications of the reference product. In December 2016, we completed the resubmission of the biologics license application to the FDA for Retacrit in response to the “complete response” letter. We are continuing to work closely with the FDA on next steps. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 In May 2012, the FDA’s Peripheral and Central Nervous System Drugs Advisory Committee voted that the tafamidis meglumine data provide substantial evidence of efficacy for a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict a clinical benefit. In June 2012, the FDA issued a “complete response” letter with respect to the tafamidis NDA. The FDA has requested the completion of a second efficacy study, and also has asked for additional information on the data within the current tafamidis NDA. Pfizer initiated study B3461028 in December 2013, a global Phase 3 study to support a potential new indication in transthyretin cardiomypathy, which includes transthyretin familial amyloid cardiomyopathy (TTR-FAC) and wild-type cardiomyopathy (WT-CM). We anticipate results from this study in 2018, and continue to work with the FDA to identify next steps. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 31 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 REGULATORY APPROVALS AND FILINGS IN THE EU AND JAPAN 
 
 
 PRODUCT 
 
 DESCRIPTION OF EVENT 
 
 DATE APPROVED 
 
 DATE FILED * 
 
 
 Ertugliflozin 
 
 Application filed in the EU for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, which is being developed in collaboration with Merck 
 
 — 
 
 February 2017 
 
 
 Mylotarg ( Gemtuzumab ozogamicin) 
 
 Application filed in the EU for the treatment of acute myeloid leukemia 
 
 — 
 
 December 2016 
 
 
 Ibrance (Palbociclib) 
 
 Approval in the EU for palbociclib in combination with 
 endocrine therapy for the treatment of HR+, HER2- advanced or 
 metastatic breast cancer, as well as for the treatment of recurrent 
 advanced breast cancer 
 
 November 2016 
 
 — 
 
 
 Ibrance (Palbociclib) 
 
 Application filed in Japan for palbociclib in combination with 
 endocrine therapy for the treatment of inoperable or recurrent breast cancer 
 
 — 
 
 October 2016 
 
 
 Avelumab (PF-06834635) 
 (MSB0010718C) 
 
 Application filed in the EU for the treatment of metastatic 
 Merkel cell carcinoma 
 
 — 
 
 October 2016 
 
 
 Xalkori (Crizotinib) 
 
 Approval in the EU for the treatment of ROS1-positive non-small cell lung cancer 
 
 August 2016 
 
 — 
 
 
 Xalkori (Crizotinib) 
 
 Application filed in Japan for the treatment of ROS1-positive 
 non-small cell lung cancer 
 
 — 
 
 August 2016 
 
 
 Inotuzumab ozogamicin 
 
 Application filed in the EU for the treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukemia 
 
 — 
 
 May 2016 
 
 
 Trumenba 
 
 Application filed in the EU for a prophylactic vaccine for active immunization to prevent invasive disease caused by Neisseria meningitidis serogroup B in individuals 10 through 25 years of age 
 
 — 
 
 May 2016 
 
 
 Xeljanz (Tofacitinib) (a) 
 
 Application filed in the EU for the treatment of moderate to severe active rheumatoid arthritis in adult patients who have responded inadequately to, or who are intolerant to one or more disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs. Xeljanz can be given as monotherapy in case of intolerance to methotrexate (MTX) or when treatment with MTX is inappropriate 
 
 — 
 
 March 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 For applications in the EU, the dates set forth in this column are the dates on which the EMA validated our submissions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 In January 2017, the EMA’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use issued an opinion recommending that Xeljanz be granted approval for the treatment of moderate to severe active rheumatoid arthritis in adult patients who have responded inadequately to, or who are intolerant to one or more disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs. Xeljanz can be given as monotherapy in case of intolerance to methotrexate (MTX) or when treatment with MTX is inappropriate. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 LATE-STAGE CLINICAL PROGRAMS FOR ADDITIONAL USES AND DOSAGE FORMS 
 FOR IN-LINE AND IN-REGISTRATION PRODUCTS 
 
 
 PRODUCT 
 
 PROPOSED INDICATION 
 
 
 Bosulif (Bosutinib) 
 
 First-line treatment for patients with chronic phase Philadelphia chromosome positive chronic myelogenous leukemia, which is being developed in collaboration with Avillion Group 
 
 
 Inlyta (Axitinib) 
 
 Adjuvant treatment of renal cell carcinoma, which is being developed in collaboration with SFJ Pharmaceuticals Group 
 
 
 Ibrance (Palbociclib) 
 
 Treatment of high-risk early breast cancer, in collaboration with the German Breast Group 
 
 
 Ibrance (Palbociclib) 
 
 Treatment of HR+ early breast cancer, in collaboration with the Alliance Foundation Trials, LLC, and the Austrian Breast Colorectal Cancer Study Group 
 
 
 Sutent (Sunitinib) 
 
 Adjuvant treatment of renal cell carcinoma 
 
 
 Xtandi (Enzalutamide) 
 
 Treatment of non-metastatic castrate resistant prostate cancer 
 
 
 Xtandi (Enzalutamide) 
 
 Treatment of non-metastatic high risk hormone-sensitive prostate cancer 
 
 
 Xtandi (Enzalutamide) 
 
 Treatment of metastatic hormone sensitive prostate cancer 
 
 
 Xtandi (Enzalutamide) 
 
 Treatment of triple negative breast cancer 
 
 
 Xeljanz (Tofacitinib) 
 
 Treatment of ulcerative colitis 
 
 
 Xeljanz (Tofacitinib) 
 
 Treatment of psoriatic arthritis 
 
 
 Vyndaqel (Tafamidis meglumine) 
 
 Adult symptomatic transthyretin cardiomyopathy 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 32 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 NEW DRUG CANDIDATES IN LATE-STAGE DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 CANDIDATE 
 
 PROPOSED INDICATION 
 
 
 Avelumab (PF-06834635) 
 (MSB0010718C) 
 
 A monoclonal antibody that inhibits PD-L1, in combination with Inlyta (axitinib), a tyrosine kinase inhibitor, for the first-line treatment of advanced renal cell carcinoma, which is being developed in collaboration with Merck KGaA, Germany 
 
 
 Avelumab (PF-06834635) 
 (MSB0010718C) 
 
 A monoclonal antibody that inhibits PD-L1 for the first-line treatment of stage IIIb/IV non-small cell lung cancer, which is being developed in collaboration with Merck KGaA, Germany 
 
 
 Avelumab (PF-06834635) 
 (MSB0010718C) 
 
 A monoclonal antibody that inhibits PD-L1 for treatment of stage IIIb/IV non-small cell lung cancer that has progressed after a platinum-containing doublet, which is being developed in collaboration with Merck KGaA, Germany 
 
 
 Avelumab (PF-06834635) 
 (MSB0010718C) 
 
 A monoclonal antibody that inhibits PD-L1 for treatment of platinum-resistant/refractory ovarian cancer, which is being developed in collaboration with Merck KGaA, Germany 
 
 
 Avelumab (PF-06834635) 
 (MSB0010718C) 
 
 A monoclonal antibody that inhibits PD-L1 for the first-line treatment of ovarian cancer, which is being developed in collaboration with Merck KGaA, Germany 
 
 
 Avelumab (PF-06834635) 
 (MSB0010718C) 
 
 A monoclonal antibody that inhibits PD-L1 for maintenance treatment, in the first-line setting, for patients with urothelial cancer, which is being developed in collaboration with Merck KGaA, Germany 
 
 
 Avelumab (PF-06834635) 
 (MSB0010718C) 
 
 A monoclonal antibody that inhibits PD-L1 for maintenance treatment of advanced or metastatic gastric/gastro-esophageal junction cancers, which is being developed in collaboration with Merck KGaA, Germany 
 
 
 Avelumab (PF-06834635) 
 (MSB0010718C) 
 
 A monoclonal antibody that inhibits PD-L1 for the third-line treatment of advanced or metastatic gastric/gastro-esophageal junction cancers, which is being developed in collaboration with Merck KGaA, Germany 
 
 
 Avelumab (PF-06834635) 
 (MSB0010718C) 
 
 A monoclonal antibody that inhibits PD-L1 for treatment of locally advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck, which is being developed in collaboration with Merck KGaA, Germany 
 
 
 Dacomitinib 
 
 A pan-human epidermal growth factor receptor (HER) tyrosine kinase inhibitor for the first-line treatment of patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer with estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) activating mutations, which is being developed in collaboration with SFJ Pharmaceuticals Group 
 
 
 Ertugliflozin 
 
 An oral SGLT2 inhibitor for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, which is being developed in collaboration with Merck (U.S.) 
 . 
 
 
 PF-06836922 
 
 A long-acting hGH-CTP for the treatment of growth hormone deficiency in adults, which is being developed in collaboration with OPKO. 
 
 
 PF-06438179 (a) 
 
 A potential biosimilar to Remicade® (infliximab) 
 
 
 PF-05280014 (b) 
 
 A potential biosimilar to Herceptin® (trastuzumab) 
 
 
 PF-05280586 (c) 
 
 A potential biosimilar to Rituxan® (rituximab) 
 
 
 PF-06439535 (d) 
 
 A potential biosimilar to Avastin® (bevacizumab) 
 
 
 PF-06410293 (e) 
 
 A potential biosimilar to Humira® (adalimumab) 
 
 
 Rivipansel (GMI-1070) 
 
 A pan-selectin inhibitor for the treatment of vaso-occlusive crisis in hospitalized individuals with sickle cell disease, which was licensed from GlycoMimetics Inc. 
 
 
 talazoparib (MDV3800) 
 
 An oral PARP inhibitor for the treatment of patients with germline breast cancer susceptibility gene BRCA mutated advanced breast cancer 
 
 
 Tanezumab 
 
 An anti-nerve growth factor monoclonal antibody for the treatment of pain, which is being developed in collaboration with Lilly 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 Remicade® is a registered trademark of Janssen Biotech, Inc. In February 2016, we divested the rights for development and commercialization of PF-06438179, a potential biosimilar to Remicade® (infliximab) in the 28 countries that form the European Economic Area (EEA) to Sandoz, which was a condition to the European Commission’s approval of the Hospira transaction. We retain commercialization rights to PF-06438179 in all countries outside of the EEA. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 Herceptin® is a registered trademark of Genentech, Inc. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 Rituxan® is a registered trademark of Biogen MA Inc. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) 
 
 Avastin® is a registered trademark of Genentech, Inc. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (e) 
 
 Humira® is a registered trademark of AbbVie Biotechnology Ltd. 
 
 Additional product-related programs are in various stages of discovery and development. Also, see the discussion in the “Our Strategy––Our Business Development Initiatives” section of this Financial Review. 
 
 COSTS AND EXPENSES 
 
 Cost of Sales 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 16/15 
 
 
 
 15/14 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 12,329 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 9,648 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 9,577 
 
 
 
 
 
 28 
 
 
 
 1 
 
 
 As a percentage of Revenues 
 
 
 
 23.3 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 19.7 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 19.3 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 v. 2015 
 Cost of sales increased 28% in 2016 , compared to 2015 , primarily due to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the inclusion of a full year of legacy Hospira global operations in 2016, compared to the inclusion of four months of legacy Hospira U.S. operations and three months of legacy Hospira international operations in 2015 ; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the growth in revenues from key innovative brands as well as the growth in the legacy Pfizer Sterile Injectable Pharmaceuticals portfolio; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 33 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 production variances driven by changes in product mix, including products which have lost exclusivity and manufacturing production issues at certain sites (up approximately $300 million); 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 an increase in costs associated with our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives including plant network strategy (approximately $200 million); and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of 3% or approximately $410 million in 2016 . 
 The increase in Cost of sales as a percentage of revenues in 2016 , compared to 2015 , was primarily due to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 an unfavorable change in product mix due to (i) the inclusion of a full year of legacy Hospira global operations in 2016 , compared to the inclusion of four months of legacy Hospira U.S. operations and three months of legacy Hospira international operations in 2015 , with products that carry a higher cost, as well as the impact of acquired Hospira inventory which was measured at fair value on the acquisition date and amortized over the turn of the related inventory; and (ii) the impact of losses of exclusivity on products which formerly had a higher gross margin; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the unfavorable impact of costs incurred to implement our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives (not related to acquisitions) in 2016, compared to 2015, 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 a favorable change in product mix related to legacy Pfizer products, excluding the impact of losses of exclusivity on products referred to above; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 non-recurring charges of $72 million related to manufacturing plant pension obligations and non-recurring charges of $72 million related to inventory impairment in Venezuela in 2015 related to the foreign currency change described in the “Global Economic Conditions—Venezuela Operations” section in this Financial Review. 
 2015 v. 2014 
 Cost of sales increased 1% in 2015, compared to 2014, primarily due to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 an increase in sales volumes due to (i) the inclusion of four months of legacy Hospira U.S. operations and three months of legacy Hospira international operations and the vaccine portfolio operations acquired from Baxter in fiscal 2015, both of which are comprised of inventory measured at fair value on the acquisition date (approximately $2.1 billion); and (ii) the net increase in sales volume of Pfizer legacy products; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 non-recurring charges of $72 million related to manufacturing plant pension obligations and $72 million related to inventory impairment in Venezuela in 2015 related to the foreign currency change described in the “Global Economic Conditions—Venezuela Operations” section in this Financial Review, 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 favorable foreign exchange of 10% in 2015; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 a change in the profit deferred in inventory relating to inventory that had not been sold to third parties resulting in a non-cash benefit of $306 million; and, to a lesser extent 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 manufacturing efficiencies; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 a decrease in royalty expense associated with products that recently lost marketing exclusivity. 
 The increase in Cost of sales as a percentage of Revenues in 2015, compared to 2014, was primarily due to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 an unfavorable change in product mix due to (i) the inclusion of four months of legacy Hospira U.S. operations, three months of legacy Hospira international operations, and the vaccine portfolio operations acquired from Baxter in fiscal 2015, both of which are comprised of inventory measured at fair value on the acquisition date; and (ii) the impact of losses of exclusivity, 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 a change in the profit deferred in inventory relating to inventory that had not been sold to third parties (described above); 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 manufacturing efficiencies; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 favorable foreign exchange; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 a decrease in royalty expenses associated with products that have recently lost marketing exclusivity; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 an increase in alliance revenues which have no associated cost of sales. 
 
 Selling, Informational and Administrative (SI&A) Expenses 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 16/15 
 
 
 
 15/14 
 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 14,837 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 14,809 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 14,097 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 5 
 
 
 As a percentage of Revenues 
 
 
 
 28.1 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 30.3 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 28.4 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 v. 2015 
 SI&A expenses were relatively flat in 2016 , compared to 2015 , primarily due to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 an increase in the allowance for doubtful trade accounts receivable, resulting from unfavorable developments with a distributor (approximately $280 million); 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 34 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the inclusion of a full year of legacy Hospira global operations in 2016 , compared to the inclusion of four months of legacy Hospira U.S. operations and three months of legacy Hospira international operations in 2015 ; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 additional investment across several of our key products, 
 offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the non-recurrence of a $419 million charge related to the settlement of pension obligations in accordance with an offer to certain terminated employees who are vested in their pension benefits to elect a lump-sum payment or annuity of their deferred vested pension benefits in 2015; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the favorable impact of foreign exchange of 2% in 2016 . 
 2015 v. 2014 
 
 SI&A expenses increased 5% in 2015, compared to 2014, primarily due to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 increased investments to support recently launched products and other in-line biopharmaceutical products and certain Consumer Healthcare brands; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 a non-recurring charge of $419 million related to the settlement of pension obligations in accordance with an offer to certain terminated employees who are vested in their pension benefits to elect a lump-sum payment or annuity of their deferred vested pension benefits; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the inclusion of four months of legacy Hospira U.S. operations and three months of legacy Hospira international operations, 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the favorable impact of foreign exchange of 6%; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 lower expenses associated with certain products that have recently lost marketing exclusivity; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 lower field force, advertising and promotional expenses, reflecting the benefits of cost-reduction and productivity initiatives; as well as 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the non-recurrence of a $215 million charge to account for an additional year of the non-tax deductible Branded Prescription Drug Fee in accordance with final regulations issued in the third quarter of 2014 by the IRS. 
 
 Research and Development (R&D) Expenses 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 16/15 
 
 
 
 15/14 
 
 
 
 
 Research and development expenses 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 7,872 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 7,690 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 8,393 
 
 
 
 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 (8 
 
 ) 
 
 
 As a percentage of Revenues 
 
 
 
 14.9 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 15.7 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 16.9 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 v. 2015 
 R&D expenses increased 2% in 2016 , compared to 2015 , primarily due to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 costs of approximately $260 million to close out studies for the global clinical development program for bococizumab that was discontinued in the fourth quarter of 2016; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the inclusion of a full year of legacy Hospira global operations in 2016 , compared to the inclusion of four months of legacy Hospira U.S. operations and three months of legacy Hospira international operations in 2015 and increased investment in legacy Hospira biosimilar and sterile injectable development programs and, to a lesser extent, the inclusion of approximately six months of legacy Anacor operations and approximately three months of legacy Medivation operations; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 increased costs associated with our oncology programs, primarily our avelumab alliance with Merck KGaA, 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the non-recurrence of the $295 million upfront payment to OPKO in the first quarter of 2015 associated with a worldwide development and commercialization agreement; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 development funding of $272 million under which we had an obligation to perform contractual services related to certain clinical trials of bococizumab, Ibrance and rivipansel (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 2D. Acquisitions, Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Agreements, Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements, Equity-Method Investments and Cost-Method Investment : Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements ) . 
 2015 v. 2014 
 R&D expenses decreased 8% in 2015 , compared to 2014 , primarily due to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the non-recurrence of a charge associated with a collaborative arrangement with Merck KGaA, announced in November 2014, to jointly develop and commercialize avelumab, an investigational anti-PD-L1 antibody currently in development as a potential treatment for multiple types of cancer. The charge included an $850 million upfront cash payment as well as an additional amount of $309 million, reflecting the estimated fair value of certain co-promotion rights for Xalkori given to Merck KGaA (for further discussion, see the “Our Strategy––Our Business Development Initiatives” section of this Financial Review); 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 lower clinical trial expenses for various studies for certain previously approved products, including as a result of the completion of postmarketing commitments; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 lower upfront payments associated with certain licensing agreements compared to 2014; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the favorable impact of foreign exchange of 2%, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 35 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 higher clinical trial spend for certain oncology and IH pipeline programs; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the $295 million upfront payment to OPKO in the first quarter of 2015 associated with a worldwide development and commercialization agreement; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 increased investment in biosimilar and sterile injectable development programs; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the inclusion of four months of legacy Hospira U.S. operations and three months of legacy Hospira international operations. 
 
 See also the “Analysis of Operating Segment Information” section of this Financial Review. 
 
 Description of Research and Development Operations 
 
 Innovation is critical to the success of our company, and drug discovery and development is time-consuming, expensive and unpredictable. 
 Our R&D spending is conducted through a number of matrix organizations, and in 2016, we announced changes to our R&D operations that we believe will create a stronger and more efficient R&D engine across our IH and EH businesses. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Research Units within our WRD organization continue to be generally responsible for research assets for our IH business (assets that have not yet achieved proof-of-concept). Our Research Units are organized in a variety of ways (by therapeutic area or combinations of therapeutic areas, by discipline, by location, etc.) to enhance flexibility, cohesiveness and focus. Because of our structure, we can rapidly redeploy resources within a Research Unit between various projects as necessary because the workforce shares similar skills, expertise and/or focus. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 We created an R&D organization within the EH business, which supports the large base of EH products and is expected to develop potential new sterile injectable drugs and therapeutic solutions, as well as biosimilars. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 We formed the GPD organization, which is generally responsible for the clinical development of assets that are in clinical trials for our WRD and Innovative portfolios. GPD also provides technical support and other services to Pfizer R&D projects. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Our science-based and other end-to-end platform-services organizations, where a significant portion of our R&D spending occurs, provide technical expertise and other services to the various R&D projects, and are organized into science-based functions (which are part of our WRD organization), such as Pharmaceutical Sciences, Medicinal Chemistry, Regulatory and Drug Safety, and non-science-based functions, such as Facilities, Business Technology and Finance. As a result, within each of these functions, we are able to migrate resources among projects, candidates and/or targets in any therapeutic area and in most phases of development, allowing us to react quickly in response to evolving needs. 
 
 We manage R&D operations on a total-company basis through our matrix organizations described above. Specifically, a single committee with representation from the R&D groups and the IH commercial organization is accountable for aligning resources among all of our WRD, GPD and IH R&D projects and for seeking to ensure optimal capital allocation across the Innovative R&D portfolio. We believe that this approach also serves to maximize accountability and flexibility. Our EH R&D organization manages its resources separately from the WRD and GPD organizations. 
 
 Generally, we do not disaggregate total R&D expense by development phase or by therapeutic area since, as described above, we do not manage a significant portion of our R&D operations by development phase or by therapeutic area. Further, as we are able to adjust a significant portion of our spending quickly, as conditions change, we believe that any prior-period information about R&D expense by development phase or by therapeutic area would not necessarily be representative of future spending. 
 For additional information by operating segment, see the “Analysis of Operating Segment Information” section of this Financial Review. 
 
 Amortization of Intangible Assets 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 16/15 
 
 
 
 15/14 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization of intangible assets 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 4,056 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 3,728 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 4,039 
 
 
 
 
 
 9 
 
 
 
 (8 
 
 ) 
 
 
 As a percentage of Revenues 
 
 
 
 7.7 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 7.6 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 8.1 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization of intangible assets increased 9% in 2016 , compared to 2015 , primarily due to the inclusion of a full year of amortization expense for the identifiable intangible assets acquired from legacy Hospira global operations in 2016, compared to the inclusion of only four months of legacy Hospira U.S. amortization expense and three months of legacy Hospira international amortization expense in 2015, as well as the inclusion of three months of amortization expense for the intangible assets acquired from legacy Medivation in 2016, partially offset by assets that became fully amortized at the end of their estimated useful lives. 
 Amortization of intangible assets decreased 8% in 2015 , compared to 2014 , primarily due to assets that became fully amortized at the end of their estimated useful lives, partially offset by purchase accounting charges of approximately $161 million pre-tax related to the identifiable intangible assets acquired from Hospira. 
 
 See also Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 10A. Identifiable Intangible Assets and Goodwill: Identifiable Intangible Assets. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 36 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 16/15 
 
 
 
 15/14 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,724 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,152 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 250 
 
 
 
 
 
 50 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 Total additional depreciation––asset restructuring 
 
 
 
 207 
 
 
 
 
 
 122 
 
 
 
 
 
 261 
 
 
 
 
 
 70 
 
 
 
 (53 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Total implementation costs 
 
 
 
 340 
 
 
 
 
 
 203 
 
 
 
 
 
 270 
 
 
 
 
 
 67 
 
 
 
 (25 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Costs associated with acquisitions and cost-reduction/productivity initiatives (a) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 2,271 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,478 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 781 
 
 
 
 
 
 54 
 
 
 
 89 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 Comprises Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs as well as costs associated with our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives included in Cost of sales , Research and development expenses and/or Selling, informational and administrative expenses , as appropriate. 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 Calculation not meaningful. 
 Included in Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs are (i) restructuring charges of $1.2 billion in 2016 for employee termination costs, exit costs and asset impairments, which are largely associated with cost-reduction and productivity initiatives not associated with acquisitions, as well as our acquisitions of Hospira and Medivation; (ii) transaction costs, such as banking, legal, accounting and other similar services, of $127 million in 2016 , most of which are directly related to our acquisitions of Medivation and Anacor, as well as costs associated with our terminated transaction with Allergan; and (iii) integration costs, representing external, incremental costs directly related to integrating acquired businesses, and primarily include expenditures for consulting and the integration of systems and processes of $441 million for 2016, primarily related to our acquisition of Hospira and the terminated transaction with Allergan. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 3. Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives . 
 
 In connection with our acquisition of Hospira, we are focusing our efforts on achieving an appropriate cost structure for the combined company. We expect to achieve $1 billion of annual cost savings by 2018 in connection with the Hospira acquisition, 25% more than our initial cost savings target of $800 million, and have achieved approximately $500 million of cost savings through December 31, 2016. The one-time costs to generate the savings are expected to be approximately $1 billion (not including costs of $215 million for full-year 2015 associated with the return of acquired IPR&D rights), incurred for up to a three-year period post-acquisition. 
 
 In 2016, we substantially completed previously disclosed cost-reduction initiatives begun in 2014 associated with our global commercial structure reorganization, manufacturing plant network rationalization and optimization initiatives, and additional cost-reduction/productivity initiatives across the enterprise. 
 
 Through December 31, 2016, we incurred $3.1 billion (pre-tax) in total costs for the 2014-2016 program. The cumulative ongoing annual cost savings associated with the above-mentioned program (but not including expected cost savings associated with the Hospira acquisition), are approximately $3.1 billion. These savings were recognized, for the most part, through the end of 2016. However, savings from costs incurred in the last half of 2016 are expected to largely occur in 2017. For additional information about these programs and expected and actual total costs, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 3. Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives . 
 
 New Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives — 2017 through 2019 Activities 
 As a result of the evaluation performed in connection with our decision in September 2016 to not pursue, at that time, splitting IH and EH into two separate publicly-traded companies, we have identified new opportunities to potentially achieve greater optimization and efficiency to become more competitive in our business. Therefore, we have initiated new enterprise-wide cost-reduction/productivity initiatives, which we expect to complete by the end of 2019. These initiatives will encompass all areas of our cost base and will include further centralization of our corporate and platform functions and optimization of our manufacturing plant network to support IH and EH products and pipelines, as well as activities in other areas where opportunities are identified. The action plans related to these new initiatives are underway and, in order to achieve targeted savings of approximately $1.2 billion by 2020, we expect to incur total costs of approximately $900 million over the next three years. 
 
 The expected cost savings in 2017 associated with these activities are reflected in our 2017 financial guidance. 
 
 In addition to these major initiatives, we continuously monitor our operations for cost reduction and/or productivity opportunities, especially in light of the losses of exclusivity and the expiration of collaborative arrangements for various products. 
 
 Other (Income)/Deductions––Net 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 16/15 
 
 
 
 15/14 
 
 
 Other (income)/deductions—net 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 3,655 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 2,860 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,009 
 
 
 
 
 
 28 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 Calculation not meaningful. 
 For information about the components of Other (income)/deductions—net , see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 4. Other (Income)/Deductions—Net . 
 
 See also the “Analysis of Operating Segment Information” section of this Financial Review. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 37 
 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PROVISION FOR TAXES ON INCOME 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 16/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 15/14 
 
 
 
 
 Provision for taxes on income 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,123 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,990 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 3,120 
 
 
 
 
 
 (44 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (36 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Effective tax rate on continuing operations 
 
 
 
 13.4 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 22.2 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 25.5 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 In all three years presented, our effective tax rate on continuing operations was impacted by favorable audit settlements and from the expiration of certain statutes of limitations in multiple jurisdictions covering various periods, among other factors. For details about these discrete elements that impacted our tax provisions, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 5A. Tax Matters: Taxes on Income from Continuing Operations . 
 
 2016 v. 2015 
 The lower effective tax rate in 2016 compared to 2015 was primarily the result of: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the benefits related to the final resolution of an agreement in principle reached in February 2016 and finalized in April 2016 to resolve certain claims related to Protonix, which resulted in the receipt of information that raised our initial assessment in 2015 of the likelihood of prevailing on the technical merits of our tax position; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the non-recurrence of the non-deductibility of a foreign currency loss related to Venezuela; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the change in the jurisdictional mix of earnings as a result of operating fluctuations in the normal course of business; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the increase in benefits associated with the resolution of certain tax positions pertaining to prior years primarily with various foreign tax authorities, and the expiration of certain statutes of limitations; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the benefits related to the adoption of a new accounting standard in the fourth quarter of 2016, as of January 1, 2016, requiring excess tax benefits or deficiencies of share-based compensation to be recognized as a component of the Provision for taxes on income . The net tax benefit was $89 million in 2016 (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 1B. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies: Adoption of New Accounting Standards ), 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the non-recurrence of tax benefits associated with certain tax initiatives. 
 2015 v. 2014 
 The lower effective tax rate in 2015 compared to 2014 was primarily the result of: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the change in the jurisdictional mix of earnings as a result of operating fluctuations in the normal course of business; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the non-recurrence of the non-deductibility of the $215 million charge to account for an additional year of the Branded Prescription Drug Fee in accordance with the final regulations issued in the third quarter of 2014 by the IRS; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the tax benefits associated with certain tax initiatives, 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the non-deductibility of a foreign currency loss related to Venezuela; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the non-deductibility of a charge for the agreement in principle reached in February 2016 to resolve claims relating to Protonix. 
 Changes in Tax Laws 
 
 On January 23, 2017, the Governor of Puerto Rico signed into law Act No. 3-2017, amending Section 2101 of the Puerto Rico Internal Revenue Code of 1994, which imposes an excise tax that was effective beginning in 2011 (Act 154). The excise tax is imposed on the purchase of products by multinational corporations and their affiliates from their Puerto Rico affiliates. As originally adopted, the excise tax was to be in effect from 2011 through 2016 and the tax rate was to decline over time from 4% in 2011 to 1% in 2016. Act No. 2-2013 extended the excise tax through 2017 and, effective July 1, 2013, increased the tax rate to 4% for all years through 2017. Act No. 3-2017 further extended the excise tax for all years through 2027 at a rate of 4%. The excise tax has been recorded in Cost of sales and Provision for taxes on income, as appropriate. All expected impacts in 2017 have been reflected in our financial guidance for 2017. 
 
 On December 18, 2015, the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes Act of 2015 (the 2015 Act) was signed into law and generally provides for the temporary or permanent extension, retroactive to January 1, 2015, of certain tax benefits and credits that had expired, including the U.S. R&D tax credit, which was extended permanently. Given the enactment date of the 2015 Act, the benefit related to our 2015 R&D spending was recorded in 2015. 
 
 NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURE (ADJUSTED INCOME) 
 General Description of Non-GAAP Financial Measure (Adjusted Income) 
 
 Adjusted income is an alternative view of performance used by management. We measure the performance of the overall Company on this basis in conjunction with other performance metrics. Because Adjusted income is an important internal measurement for Pfizer, we believe that investors’ understanding of our performance is enhanced by disclosing this performance measure. We report Adjusted income, certain 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 38 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 components of Adjusted income, and Adjusted diluted earnings per share in order to portray the results of our major operations––the discovery, development, manufacture, marketing and sale of prescription medicines, vaccines and consumer healthcare (OTC) products––prior to considering certain income statement elements. We have defined Adjusted income as Net income attributable to Pfizer Inc. before the impact of purchase accounting for acquisitions, acquisition-related costs, discontinued operations and certain significant items, which are described below. Similarly, we have defined the Adjusted income components as Cost of sales, Selling, informational and administrative expenses, Research and development expenses, Amortization of intangible assets and Other (income)/deductions––net each before the impact of purchase accounting for acquisitions, acquisition-related costs and certain significant items. We have defined Adjusted diluted earnings per share as Earnings per common share attributable to Pfizer Inc.––diluted before the impact of purchase accounting for acquisitions, acquisition-related costs, discontinued operations and certain significant items. The Adjusted income measure and the Adjusted income component measures and the Adjusted diluted earnings per share measure are not, and should not be viewed as, a substitute for U.S. GAAP net income, U.S. GAAP net income components or U.S. GAAP diluted earnings per share. 
 
 The following are examples of how the Adjusted income and Adjusted diluted earnings per share measures are utilized: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 senior management receives a monthly analysis of our operating results that is prepared on an Adjusted income basis and Adjusted diluted earnings per share basis; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 our annual budgets are prepared on an Adjusted income and Adjusted diluted earnings per share basis; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 senior management’s annual compensation is derived, in part, using Adjusted income and Adjusted diluted earnings per share measures. Adjusted income is the performance metric utilized in the determination of bonuses under the Pfizer Inc. Executive Annual Incentive Plan that is designed to limit the bonuses payable to the Executive Leadership Team (ELT) for purposes of IRC Section 162(m). Subject to the Section 162(m) limitation, the bonuses are funded from a pool based on the performance measured by three financial metrics, including adjusted diluted earnings per share, which is derived from Adjusted income. This metric accounts for 40% of the bonus pool funding. The pool applies to the bonus plans for virtually all bonus-eligible, non-sales-force employees worldwide, including the ELT members and other members of senior management. In addition, commencing with the 2015 Performance Share Awards, adjusted operating income is one of the measures utilized to determine payout. Adjusted operating income is derived from Adjusted income. 
 Adjusted income and its components and Adjusted diluted earnings per share are non-GAAP financial measures that have no standardized meaning prescribed by U.S. GAAP and, therefore, are limited in their usefulness to investors. Because of their non-standardized definitions, Adjusted income and its components (unlike U.S. GAAP net income and its components) and Adjusted diluted earnings per share (unlike U.S. GAAP diluted earnings per share) may not be comparable to the calculation of similar measures of other companies. Adjusted income and its components and Adjusted diluted earnings per share are presented solely to permit investors to more fully understand how management assesses performance. 
 
 We also recognize that, as internal measures of performance, the Adjusted income and its components and Adjusted diluted earnings per share measures have limitations, and we do not restrict our performance-management process solely to these metrics. A limitation of these measures is that they provide a view of our operations without including all events during a period, such as the effects of an acquisition or amortization of purchased intangibles, and do not provide a comparable view of our performance to other companies in the biopharmaceutical industry. We also use other specifically tailored tools designed to achieve the highest levels of performance. For example, our R&D organization has productivity targets, upon which its effectiveness is measured. In addition, total shareholder return, both on an absolute basis and relative to a group of pharmaceutical industry peers (pre-2015) or a publicly traded pharmaceutical index, plays a significant role in determining payouts under certain of Pfizer’s long-term incentive compensation plans. 
 
 See the accompanying reconciliations of certain GAAP reported to non-GAAP adjusted information for 2016 , 2015 and 2014 below. 
 
 Purchase Accounting Adjustments 
 
 Adjusted income is calculated prior to considering certain significant purchase accounting impacts resulting from business combinations and net asset acquisitions. These impacts, primarily associated with Wyeth (acquired in 2009), Hospira (acquired in 2015), Anacor (acquired in June 2016) and Medivation (acquired in September 2016), can include the incremental charge to cost of sales from the sale of acquired inventory that was written up to fair value, amortization related to the increase in fair value of the acquired finite-lived intangible assets, and to a much lesser extent, depreciation related to the increase/decrease in fair value of the acquired fixed assets (primarily manufacturing facilities), amortization related to the increase in fair value of acquired debt, and the fair value changes associated with contingent consideration. Therefore, the Adjusted income measure includes the revenues earned upon the sale of the acquired products without considering the acquisition cost of those products. 
 
 Certain of the purchase accounting adjustments can occur through 20 or more years, but this presentation provides an alternative view of our performance that is used by management to internally assess business performance. We believe the elimination of amortization attributable to acquired intangible assets provides management and investors an alternative view of our business results by trying to provide a degree of parity to internally developed intangible assets for which R&D costs previously have been expensed. 
 
 However, a completely accurate comparison of internally developed intangible assets and acquired intangible assets cannot be achieved through Adjusted income. This component of Adjusted income is derived solely from the impacts of the items listed in the first paragraph of this section. We have not factored in the impacts of any other differences in experience that might have occurred if we had discovered and developed those intangible assets on our own, and this approach does not intend to be representative of the results that would have occurred in those circumstances. For example, our R&D costs in total, and in the periods presented, may have been different; our speed to commercialization and resulting sales, if any, may have been different; or our costs to manufacture may have been different. In addition, our marketing efforts may have been received differently by our customers. As such, in total, there can be no assurance that our Adjusted income amounts would have been the same as presented had we discovered and developed the acquired intangible assets. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 39 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Acquisition-Related Costs 
 
 Adjusted income is calculated prior to considering transaction, integration, restructuring and additional depreciation costs associated with business combinations because these costs are unique to each transaction and represent costs that were incurred to restructure and integrate two businesses as a result of the acquisition decision. For additional clarity, only transaction costs, additional depreciation and restructuring and integration activities that are associated with a business combination or a net-asset acquisition are included in acquisition-related costs. We have made no adjustments for the resulting synergies. 
 
 We believe that viewing income prior to considering these charges provides investors with a useful additional perspective because the significant costs incurred in connection with a business combination result primarily from the need to eliminate duplicate assets, activities or employees––a natural result of acquiring a fully integrated set of activities. For this reason, we believe that the costs incurred to convert disparate systems, to close duplicative facilities or to eliminate duplicate positions (for example, in the context of a business combination) can be viewed differently from those costs incurred in other, more normal, business contexts. 
 
 The integration and restructuring costs associated with a business combination may occur over several years, with the more significant impacts typically ending within three years of the transaction. Because of the need for certain external approvals for some actions, the span of time needed to achieve certain restructuring and integration activities can be lengthy. For example, due to the highly regulated nature of the pharmaceutical business, the closure of excess facilities can take several years, as all manufacturing changes are subject to extensive validation and testing and must be approved by the FDA and/or other global regulatory authorities. 
 
 Discontinued Operations 
 
 Adjusted income is calculated prior to considering the results of operations included in discontinued operations, as well as any related gains or losses on the disposal of such operations. We believe that this presentation is meaningful to investors because, while we review our businesses and product lines for strategic fit with our operations, we do not build or run our businesses with the intent to sell them. Restatements due to discontinued operations do not impact compensation or change the Adjusted income measure for the compensation in respect of the restated periods, but are presented for consistency across all periods. 
 
 Certain Significant Items 
 
 Adjusted income is calculated prior to considering certain significant items. Certain significant items represent substantive and/or unusual items that are evaluated on an individual basis. Such evaluation considers both the quantitative and the qualitative aspects of their nature. Certain significant items may be highly variable and difficult to predict. Furthermore, in some cases it is reasonably possible that they could reoccur in future periods. For example, major non-acquisition-related cost-reduction programs stand on their own as they are specific to an event or goal with a defined term, but we may have subsequent programs based on reorganizations of the business, cost productivity or in response to loss of exclusivity or economic conditions. Legal charges to resolve litigation are also related to specific cases, which are facts and circumstances specific and, in some cases, may also be the result of litigation matters at acquired companies that were inestimable, not probable or unresolved at the date of acquisition. Unusual items may represent items that are not part of our ongoing business; items that, either as a result of their nature or size, we would not expect to occur as part of our normal business on a regular basis; items that would be non-recurring; or items that relate to products we no longer sell. While not all-inclusive, examples of items that could be included as certain significant items would be a major non-acquisition-related restructuring charge and associated implementation costs; amounts related to certain disposals of businesses, products or facilities that do not qualify as discontinued operations under U.S. GAAP; certain intangible asset impairments; adjustments related to the resolution of certain tax positions; the impact of adopting certain significant, event-driven tax legislation; or charges related to certain legal matters, such as certain of those discussed in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 17A. Commitments and Contingencies: Legal Proceedings and in Part II, ITEM 1, “Legal Proceedings” in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. Normal, ongoing defense costs of the Company or settlements of and accruals for legal matters made in the normal course of our business would not be considered certain significant items. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 40 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Reconciliation of GAAP Reported to Non-GAAP Adjusted Information––Certain Line Items 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER COMMON SHARE DATA 
 
 
 
 GAAP Reported 
 
 
 
 
 
 Purchase Accounting Adjustments (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Acquisition-Related Costs (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Discontinued Operations (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Certain Significant Items (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Non-GAAP Adjusted 
 
 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 52,824 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 52,824 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 
 
 12,329 
 
 
 
 
 
 (295 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (7 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (397 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 11,630 
 
 
 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses 
 
 
 
 14,837 
 
 
 
 
 
 (3 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (89 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 14,745 
 
 
 
 
 Research and development expenses 
 
 
 
 7,872 
 
 
 
 
 
 3 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (34 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 7,841 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization of intangible assets 
 
 
 
 4,056 
 
 
 
 
 
 (3,928 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 128 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 
 
 
 
 1,724 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (778 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (945 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Other (income)/deductions––net 
 
 
 
 3,655 
 
 
 
 
 
 39 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (4,423 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (729 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income 
 
 
 
 8,351 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,185 
 
 
 
 
 
 785 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 5,888 
 
 
 
 
 
 19,210 
 
 
 
 
 Provision for taxes on income (b) 
 
 
 
 1,123 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,248 
 
 
 
 
 
 104 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,943 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,418 
 
 
 
 
 Income from continuing operations 
 
 
 
 7,229 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,937 
 
 
 
 
 
 682 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,944 
 
 
 
 
 
 14,792 
 
 
 
 
 Discontinued operations––net of tax 
 
 
 
 17 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (17 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 
 
 
 
 31 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 31 
 
 
 
 
 Net income attributable to Pfizer Inc. 
 
 
 
 7,215 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,937 
 
 
 
 
 
 682 
 
 
 
 
 
 (17 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 3,944 
 
 
 
 
 
 14,761 
 
 
 
 
 Earnings per common share attributable to Pfizer Inc.––diluted 
 
 
 
 1.17 
 
 
 
 
 
 0.48 
 
 
 
 
 
 0.11 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 0.64 
 
 
 
 
 
 2.40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER COMMON SHARE DATA 
 
 
 
 GAAP Reported 
 
 
 
 
 
 Purchase Accounting Adjustments (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Acquisition-Related Costs (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Discontinued Operations (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Certain Significant Items (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Non-GAAP Adjusted 
 
 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 48,851 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 48,851 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 
 
 9,648 
 
 
 
 
 
 (413 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (75 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (140 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 9,021 
 
 
 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses 
 
 
 
 14,809 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (484 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 14,324 
 
 
 
 
 Research and development expenses 
 
 
 
 7,690 
 
 
 
 
 
 7 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (44 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 7,653 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization of intangible assets 
 
 
 
 3,728 
 
 
 
 
 
 (3,598 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 130 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 
 
 
 
 1,152 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (820 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (333 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Other (income)/deductions––net 
 
 
 
 2,860 
 
 
 
 
 
 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (3,321 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (409 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income 
 
 
 
 8,965 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,953 
 
 
 
 
 
 894 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,321 
 
 
 
 
 
 18,133 
 
 
 
 
 Provision for taxes on income (b) 
 
 
 
 1,990 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,110 
 
 
 
 
 
 303 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 949 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,352 
 
 
 
 
 Income from continuing operations 
 
 
 
 6,975 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,843 
 
 
 
 
 
 591 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,372 
 
 
 
 
 
 13,781 
 
 
 
 
 Discontinued operations––net of tax 
 
 
 
 11 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (11 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 
 
 
 
 26 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 26 
 
 
 
 
 Net income attributable to Pfizer Inc. 
 
 
 
 6,960 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,843 
 
 
 
 
 
 591 
 
 
 
 
 
 (11 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 3,372 
 
 
 
 
 
 13,755 
 
 
 
 
 Earnings per common share attributable to Pfizer Inc.––diluted 
 
 
 
 1.11 
 
 
 
 
 
 0.45 
 
 
 
 
 
 0.09 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 0.54 
 
 
 
 
 
 2.20 
 
 
 See end of tables for notes (a) and (b) . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 41 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2014 
 
 
 IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER COMMON SHARE DATA 
 
 
 
 GAAP Reported 
 
 
 
 
 
 Purchase Accounting Adjustments (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Acquisition-Related Costs (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Discontinued Operations (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Certain Significant Items (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Non-GAAP Adjusted 
 
 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 49,605 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (198 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 49,406 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 
 
 9,577 
 
 
 
 
 
 101 
 
 
 
 
 
 (53 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (491 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 9,134 
 
 
 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses 
 
 
 
 14,097 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (377 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 13,721 
 
 
 
 
 Research and development expenses 
 
 
 
 8,393 
 
 
 
 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (1,243 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 7,153 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization of intangible assets 
 
 
 
 4,039 
 
 
 
 
 
 (3,884 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 155 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 
 
 
 
 250 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (130 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (121 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Other (income)/deductions––net 
 
 
 
 1,009 
 
 
 
 
 
 139 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (1,716 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (567 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income 
 
 
 
 12,240 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,641 
 
 
 
 
 
 183 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,749 
 
 
 
 
 
 19,812 
 
 
 
 
 Provision for taxes on income (b) 
 
 
 
 3,120 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,085 
 
 
 
 
 
 76 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 969 
 
 
 
 
 
 5,250 
 
 
 
 
 Income from continuing operations 
 
 
 
 9,119 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,556 
 
 
 
 
 
 107 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,780 
 
 
 
 
 
 14,562 
 
 
 
 
 Discontinued operations––net of tax 
 
 
 
 48 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 (48 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 
 
 
 
 32 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 32 
 
 
 
 
 Net income attributable to Pfizer Inc. 
 
 
 
 9,135 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,556 
 
 
 
 
 
 107 
 
 
 
 
 
 (48 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 2,780 
 
 
 
 
 
 14,530 
 
 
 
 
 Earnings per common share attributable to Pfizer Inc.––diluted 
 
 
 
 1.42 
 
 
 
 
 
 0.40 
 
 
 
 
 
 0.02 
 
 
 
 
 
 (0.01 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 0.43 
 
 
 
 
 
 2.26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 For details of adjustments, see “Details of Income Statement Items Included in GAAP Reported but Excluded from Non-GAAP Adjusted Income” below. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 The effective tax rate on Non-GAAP Adjusted income was 23.0% in 2016 , 24.0% in 2015 and 26.5% in 2014. The decline in the effective tax rate for 2016 compared with 2015 was primarily due to a favorable change in the jurisdictional mix of earnings as a result of operating fluctuations in the normal course of business, an increase in tax benefits associated with the resolution of certain tax positions pertaining to prior years primarily with various foreign tax authorities, and the expiration of certain statutes of limitations, as well as benefits related to the adoption of a new accounting standard in the fourth quarter of 2016, as of January 1, 2016, requiring excess tax benefits or deficiencies of share-based compensation to be recognized as a component of the Provision for taxes on income . The decline in the effective tax rate in 2015 compared to 2014 was primarily due to a favorable change in the jurisdictional mix of earnings as a result of operating fluctuations in the normal course of business. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 42 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Details of Income Statement Items Included in GAAP Reported but Excluded from Non-GAAP Adjusted Income 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Adjusted income, as shown above, excludes the following items: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 2014 
 
 
 
 
 Purchase accounting adjustments 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization, depreciation and other (a) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 3,890 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 3,540 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 3,742 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 
 
 295 
 
 
 
 
 
 413 
 
 
 
 
 
 (101 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Total purchase accounting adjustments—pre-tax 
 
 
 
 4,185 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,953 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,641 
 
 
 
 
 Income taxes (b) 
 
 
 
 (1,248 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (1,110 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (1,085 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Total purchase accounting adjustments—net of tax 
 
 
 
 2,937 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,843 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,556 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Acquisition-related costs 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges (c) 
 
 
 
 211 
 
 
 
 
 
 479 
 
 
 
 
 
 50 
 
 
 
 
 Transaction costs (c) 
 
 
 
 127 
 
 
 
 
 
 123 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Integration costs (c) 
 
 
 
 441 
 
 
 
 
 
 218 
 
 
 
 
 
 80 
 
 
 
 
 Additional depreciation—asset restructuring (d) 
 
 
 
 7 
 
 
 
 
 
 75 
 
 
 
 
 
 53 
 
 
 
 
 Total acquisition-related costs—pre-tax 
 
 
 
 785 
 
 
 
 
 
 894 
 
 
 
 
 
 183 
 
 
 
 
 Income taxes (e) 
 
 
 
 (104 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (303 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (76 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Total acquisition-related costs—net of tax 
 
 
 
 682 
 
 
 
 
 
 591 
 
 
 
 
 
 107 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Discontinued operations 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total discontinued operations—net of tax, attributable to Pfizer Inc. (f) 
 
 
 
 (17 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (11 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (48 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Certain significant items 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges (g) 
 
 
 
 945 
 
 
 
 
 
 333 
 
 
 
 
 
 121 
 
 
 
 
 Implementation costs and additional depreciation—asset restructuring (h) 
 
 
 
 540 
 
 
 
 
 
 251 
 
 
 
 
 
 478 
 
 
 
 
 Certain legal matters, net (i) 
 
 
 
 494 
 
 
 
 
 
 968 
 
 
 
 
 
 999 
 
 
 
 
 Impairment on remeasurement of HIS net assets (i) 
 
 
 
 1,712 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Certain asset impairments (i) 
 
 
 
 1,426 
 
 
 
 
 
 787 
 
 
 
 
 
 440 
 
 
 
 
 Foreign currency loss and inventory impairment related to Venezuela (j) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 878 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Charge related to pension settlement (k) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 491 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Upfront fee associated with collaborative arrangement (l) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,163 
 
 
 
 
 Additional year of Branded Prescription Drug Fee (m) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 215 
 
 
 
 
 Business and legal entity alignment costs (i) 
 
 
 
 261 
 
 
 
 
 
 282 
 
 
 
 
 
 168 
 
 
 
 
 Other (n) 
 
 
 
 509 
 
 
 
 
 
 332 
 
 
 
 
 
 165 
 
 
 
 
 Total certain significant items—pre-tax 
 
 
 
 5,888 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,321 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,749 
 
 
 
 
 Income taxes (o) 
 
 
 
 (1,943 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (949 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (969 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Total certain significant items—net of tax 
 
 
 
 3,944 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,372 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,780 
 
 
 
 
 Total purchase accounting adjustments, acquisition-related costs, discontinued operations and certain significant items—net of tax, attributable to Pfizer Inc. 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 7,546 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 6,795 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 5,394 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 Included primarily in Amortization of intangible assets . 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 Included in Provision for taxes on income. Income taxes includes the tax effect of the associated pre-tax amounts, calculated by determining the jurisdictional location of the pre-tax amounts and applying that jurisdiction’s applicable tax rate. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 Included in Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs . Restructuring charges include employee termination costs, asset impairments and other exit costs associated with business combinations. Transaction costs represent external costs for banking, legal, accounting and other similar services. Integration costs represent external, incremental costs directly related to integrating acquired businesses, and primarily include expenditures for consulting and the integration of systems and processes. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 3. Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives . 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) 
 
 Included in Cost of sales. Represents the impact of changes in estimated useful lives of assets involved in restructuring actions related to acquisitions . 
 
 
 
 
 
 (e) 
 
 Included in Provision for taxes on income. Income taxes includes the tax effect of the associated pre-tax amounts, calculated by determining the jurisdictional location of the pre-tax amounts and applying that jurisdiction’s applicable tax rate. As applicable, each period may also include the impact of the remeasurement of certain deferred tax liabilities resulting from our plant network restructuring activities: in 2016, there was an unfavorable impact, and in 2014, there was a favorable impact. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (f) 
 
 Included in Discontinued operations––net of tax. For 2016, 2015 and 2014, represents post-close adjustments. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (g) 
 
 Included in Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 3. Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives ). Amounts relate to our cost-reduction and productivity initiatives not related to acquisitions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 43 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (h) 
 
 Amounts relate to our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives not related to acquisitions (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 3. Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives ). For 2016, primarily all included in Cost of sales ( $423 million ), Selling, informational and administrative expenses ( $81 million ) and Research and development expenses ( $32 million ). For 2015, virtually all included in Cost of sales ( $145 million ), Selling, informational and administrative expenses ( $83 million ) and Research and development expenses ( $19 million ). For 2014, virtually all included in Cost of sales ( $253 million ), Selling, informational and administrative expenses ( $141 million ) and Research and development expenses ( $83 million ). 
 
 
 
 
 
 (i) 
 
 Included in Other (income)/deductions—net (see the “Other (Income)/Deductions—Net” section of this Financial Review and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 4. Other (Income)/Deductions—Net ). 
 
 
 
 
 
 (j) 
 
 In 2015, represents (i) an $806 million foreign currency loss included in Other (income)/deductions––net related to conditions in Venezuela during 2015, that had us resolve that our Venezuelan bolivar-denominated net monetary assets that are s ubject to revaluation were no longer expected to be settled at the Venezuelan government CENCOEX official rate of 6.30, but rather at the then SIMADI rate of 200, the lowest official rate. Those conditions included the inability to obtain significant conversions of Venezuelan bolivars related to intercompany U.S. dollar denominated accounts, an evaluation of the effects of the implementation of a fourth-quarter 2015 operational restructuring, resulting in 36% reduction in our labor force in Venezuela, and our expectation of the changes in Venezuela’s responses to changes in its economy; and (ii) a $72 million charge included in Cost of sales related to inventory impairment in Venezuela related to the foreign currency change described above. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (k) 
 
 In 2015, included in Cost of sales ( $72 million ) and Selling, informational and administrative expenses ( $419 million ) and primarily represents a non-recurring charge related to settlement of pension obligations in accordance with an offer to certain terminated employees who are vested in their pension benefits to elect a lump-sum payment or annuity of their deferred vested pension benefits. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (l) 
 
 Virtually all included in Research and development expenses . Represents a charge associated with a collaborative arrangement with Merck KGaA, announced in November 2014, to jointly develop and commercialize avelumab, an investigational anti-PD-L1 antibody currently in development as a potential treatment for multiple types of cancer. The charge includes an $850 million upfront cash payment as well as an additional amount of $309 million , reflecting the estimated fair value of the co-promotion rights for Xalkori given to Merck KGaA. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (m) 
 
 Included in Selling, informational and administrative expenses . In 2014, represents a charge to account for an additional year of the non-tax deductible Branded Prescription Drug Fee in accordance with final regulations issued in the third quarter of 2014 by the IRS. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (n) 
 
 For 2016 , primarily included in Cost of sales ( $27 million income) and Other (income)/deductions––net ( $526 million ). For 2015, virtually all included in Cost of sales ( $149 million income) and Other (income)/deductions––net ( $473 million ). For 2014 , virtually all included in Revenues ( $198 million ), Cost of sales ( $238 million ), Selling, informational and administrative expenses ( $21 million ) and Other (income)/deductions––net ( $103 million ). For 2016, includes, among other things, a net loss of approximately $312 million upon the early redemption of debt, which includes the related termination of interest rate swaps, and $150 million paid to Allergan for reimbursement of Allergan's expenses associated with the terminated transaction, both of which are included in Other (income/deductions—net . For 2015, includes, among other things, a change in the profit deferred in inventory relating to inventory that had not been sold to third parties, which is included in Cost of sales (non-cash benefit of $221 million ), losses of $239 million , which are included in Other (income)/deductions––net, and are related to our share of an equity method investee’s charges incurred for its re-measurement of a contingent consideration liability, and charges of $173 million related to the write-down of assets to net realizable value, which are primarily included in Other (income)/deductions––net . For 2014 , includes, among other things, income resulting from a decline in an estimated loss on an option to acquire the remaining interest in Teuto, a 40%-owned generics company in Brazil (approximately $55 million ), and income associated with the manufacturing and supply agreements with Zoetis that are virtually all included in Revenues ( $272 million ) and Cost of sales ( $237 million ). 
 
 
 
 
 
 (o) 
 
 Included in Provision for taxes on income. Income taxes includes the tax effect of the associated pre-tax amounts, calculated by determining the jurisdictional location of the pre-tax amounts and applying that jurisdiction’s applicable tax rate. The amount in 2016 was favorably impacted by benefits related to the final resolution of an agreement in principle reached in February 2016 and finalized in April 2016 to resolve certain claims related to Protonix, which resulted in the receipt of information that raised our initial assessment in 2015 of the likelihood of prevailing on the technical merits of our tax position. The amount in 2015 was favorably impacted by tax benefits associated with certain tax initiatives. In addition, the amount in 2015 was unfavorably impacted by a non-deductible foreign currency loss related to Venezuela and the non-deductible charge for the agreement in principle reached in February 2016 to resolve claims relating to Protonix. The amount in 2014 was favorably impacted by the decline in the non-tax deductible estimated loss recorded in the third quarter of 2013 related to an option to acquire the remaining interest in Teuto, since we expected to retain the investment indefinitely, and unfavorably impacted by a non-tax deductible charge to account for an additional year of the Branded Prescription Drug Fee in accordance with final regulations issued in the third quarter of 2014 by the IRS. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 5A. Tax Matters: Taxes on Income from Continuing Operations . 
 
 ANALYSIS OF OPERATING SEGMENT INFORMATION 
 
 The following tables and associated notes provide additional information about the performance of our two operating segments—the IH segment and the EH segment. For additional information about each operating segment, see the “Our Strategy –– Commercial Operations” section of this Financial Review and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 18. Segment, Geographic and Other Revenue Information . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following tables provide revenue and cost information by reportable operating segment and a reconciliation of that information to our consolidated statements of income: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 
 Innovative Health (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Essential Health (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Other (b) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Non-GAAP Adjusted (c) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Reconciling Items (d) 
 
 
 
 
 
 GAAP Reported 
 
 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 29,197 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 23,627 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 52,824 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 52,824 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 
 
 4,041 
 
 
 
 
 
 6,273 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,316 
 
 
 
 
 
 11,630 
 
 
 
 
 
 699 
 
 
 
 
 
 12,329 
 
 
 
 
 % of revenue 
 
 
 
 13.8 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 26.5 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 22.0 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 23.3 
 
 % 
 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses 
 
 
 
 7,248 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,455 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,042 
 
 
 
 
 
 14,745 
 
 
 
 
 
 92 
 
 
 
 
 
 14,837 
 
 
 
 
 Research and development expenses 
 
 
 
 2,940 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,232 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,669 
 
 
 
 
 
 7,841 
 
 
 
 
 
 31 
 
 
 
 
 
 7,872 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization of intangible assets 
 
 
 
 102 
 
 
 
 
 
 26 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 128 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,928 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,056 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,724 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,724 
 
 
 
 
 Other (income)/deductions––net 
 
 
 
 (988 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (256 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 515 
 
 
 
 
 
 (729 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 4,384 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,655 
 
 
 
 
 Income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 15,854 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 12,898 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (9,542 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 19,210 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (10,858 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 8,351 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 44 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 
 Innovative Health (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Essential Health (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Other (b) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Non-GAAP Adjusted (c) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Reconciling Items (d) 
 
 
 
 
 
 GAAP Reported 
 
 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 26,758 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 22,094 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 48,851 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 48,851 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 
 
 3,651 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,891 
 
 
 
 
 
 479 
 
 
 
 
 
 9,021 
 
 
 
 
 
 627 
 
 
 
 
 
 9,648 
 
 
 
 
 % of revenue 
 
 
 
 13.6 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 22.1 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 18.5 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 19.7 
 
 % 
 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses 
 
 
 
 6,807 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,573 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,945 
 
 
 
 
 
 14,324 
 
 
 
 
 
 485 
 
 
 
 
 
 14,809 
 
 
 
 
 Research and development expenses 
 
 
 
 2,712 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,032 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,909 
 
 
 
 
 
 7,653 
 
 
 
 
 
 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 7,690 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization of intangible assets 
 
 
 
 94 
 
 
 
 
 
 36 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 130 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,598 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,728 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,152 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,152 
 
 
 
 
 Other (income)/deductions––net 
 
 
 
 (1,086 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (152 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 829 
 
 
 
 
 
 (409 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 3,269 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,860 
 
 
 
 
 Income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 14,581 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 12,714 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (9,162 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 18,133 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (9,168 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 8,965 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2014 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 
 Innovative Health (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Essential Health (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Other (b) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Non-GAAP Adjusted (c) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Reconciling Items (d) 
 
 
 
 
 
 GAAP Reported 
 
 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 24,005 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 25,401 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 49,406 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 198 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 49,605 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 
 
 3,848 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,734 
 
 
 
 
 
 551 
 
 
 
 
 
 9,134 
 
 
 
 
 
 443 
 
 
 
 
 
 9,577 
 
 
 
 
 % of revenue 
 
 
 
 16.0 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 18.6 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 18.5 
 
 % 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 19.3 
 
 % 
 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses 
 
 
 
 6,162 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,900 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,658 
 
 
 
 
 
 13,721 
 
 
 
 
 
 377 
 
 
 
 
 
 14,097 
 
 
 
 
 Research and development expenses 
 
 
 
 2,278 
 
 
 
 
 
 938 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,937 
 
 
 
 
 
 7,153 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,241 
 
 
 
 
 
 8,393 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization of intangible assets 
 
 
 
 69 
 
 
 
 
 
 85 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 155 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,884 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,039 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 250 
 
 
 
 
 
 250 
 
 
 
 
 Other (income)/deductions––net 
 
 
 
 (1,096 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (276 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 804 
 
 
 
 
 
 (567 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 1,577 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,009 
 
 
 
 
 Income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 12,743 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 16,020 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (8,951 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 19,812 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (7,573 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 12,240 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 Amounts represent the revenues and costs managed by each of our operating segments. The expenses generally include only those costs directly attributable to the operating segment. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Our results of operations include the operating results of acquired businesses after the completion of the acquisition. On June 24, 2016, we acquired Anacor and on September 28, 2016, we acquired Medivation. Commencing from their respective acquisition dates, our results of operations and IH’s operating results for 2016 include approximately six months of legacy Anacor operations, which were immaterial, and approximately three months of legacy Medivation operations. On September 3, 2015, we acquired Hospira. Commencing from the acquisition date, our results of operations and EH’s operating results include legacy Hospira commercial operations, including the legacy Hospira One-2-One contract manufacturing business. In accordance with our domestic and international reporting periods, our results of operations and EH’s operating results for 2015 reflect four months of legacy Hospira U.S. operations and three months of legacy Hospira international operations. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 2A. Acquisitions, Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Agreements, Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements, Equity-Method Investments and Cost-Method Investment: Acquisitions for additional information. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The following organizational changes in 2016 impacted our operating segments: 
 IH ––In connection with the formation in early 2016 of the GPD organization, a new unified center for late-stage development for our innovative products, which is generally responsible for the clinical development of assets that are in clinical trials for our WRD and Innovative portfolios, effective in the second quarter of 2016, certain development-related functions transferred from IH to GPD. We have reclassified approximately $ 76 million of costs in the first quarter of 2016, $318 million of costs in 2015 and $271 million of costs in 2014 from IH to GPD to conform to the presentation as part of GPD in 2016. 
 EH ––Beginning in 2016, our contract manufacturing business, Pfizer CentreOne, is part of EH. Pfizer CentreOne consists of (i) the revenues and expenses of legacy Pfizer's contract manufacturing and active pharmaceutical ingredient sales operation (previously known as Pfizer CentreSource or PCS), including the revenues and expenses related to our manufacturing and supply agreements with Zoetis, which prior to 2016 was managed outside EH as part of PGS and previously reported in “Other Unallocated” costs; and (ii) the revenues and expenses of legacy Hospira's One-2-One sterile injectables contract manufacturing operation, which has been included in EH since we acquired Hospira on September 3, 2015. We have reclassified prior period PCS operating results ( $506 million of PCS revenues and $96 million of PCS earnings in 2015, which in 2015 includes revenues and expenses related to our manufacturing and supply agreements with Zoetis, and $253 million of PCS revenues and $69 million of PCS earnings in 2014) to conform to the current period presentation as part of EH. 
 EH ––In connection with the formation of a new EH R&D organization, effective in the first quarter of 2016, certain functions transferred from Pfizer’s WRD organization to the new EH R&D organization. We have reclassified approximately $274 million of costs in 2015 and $281 million of costs in 2014 from WRD to EH to conform to the current period presentation as part of EH. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 45 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 Other comprises the revenues and costs included in our Adjusted income components (see footnote (c) below) that are managed outside of our two operating segments and includes the following: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Other Business Activities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 WRD (i) 
 
 
 
 GPD (ii) 
 
 
 
 Medical (iii) 
 
 
 
 Corporate (iv) 
 
 
 
 Other 
 Unallocated (v) 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 199 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,117 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,316 
 
 
 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 164 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,841 
 
 
 
 
 
 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,042 
 
 
 
 
 Research and development expenses 
 
 
 
 2,352 
 
 
 
 
 
 691 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 611 
 
 
 
 
 
 14 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,669 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization of intangible assets 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Other (income)/deductions––net 
 
 
 
 (24 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 676 
 
 
 
 
 
 (136 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 515 
 
 
 
 
 Income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (2,328 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (691 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (165 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (5,326 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (1,032 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (9,542 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Other Business Activities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 WRD (i) 
 
 
 
 GPD (ii) 
 
 
 
 Medical (iii) 
 
 
 
 Corporate (iv) 
 
 
 
 Other 
 Unallocated (v) 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 20 
 
 
 
 
 
 459 
 
 
 
 
 
 479 
 
 
 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses 
 
 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 149 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,711 
 
 
 
 
 
 84 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,945 
 
 
 
 
 Research and development expenses 
 
 
 
 2,331 
 
 
 
 
 
 658 
 
 
 
 
 
 29 
 
 
 
 
 
 878 
 
 
 
 
 
 14 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,909 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization of intangible assets 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 3 
 
 
 
 
 
 (3 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Other (income)/deductions––net 
 
 
 
 (77 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 817 
 
 
 
 
 
 89 
 
 
 
 
 
 829 
 
 
 
 
 Income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (2,255 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (658 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (177 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (5,430 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (642 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (9,162 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Other Business Activities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 WRD (i) 
 
 
 
 GPD (ii) 
 
 
 
 Medical (iii) 
 
 
 
 Corporate (iv) 
 
 
 
 Other 
 Unallocated (v) 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 Revenues 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 100 
 
 
 
 
 
 452 
 
 
 
 
 
 551 
 
 
 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 144 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,454 
 
 
 
 
 
 60 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,658 
 
 
 
 
 Research and development expenses 
 
 
 
 2,431 
 
 
 
 
 
 614 
 
 
 
 
 
 27 
 
 
 
 
 
 850 
 
 
 
 
 
 15 
 
 
 
 
 
 3,937 
 
 
 
 
 Amortization of intangible assets 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 Other (income)/deductions––net 
 
 
 
 (66 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 795 
 
 
 
 
 
 75 
 
 
 
 
 
 804 
 
 
 
 
 Income from continuing operations before provision for taxes on income 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (2,365 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (614 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (171 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (5,200 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (601 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (8,951 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 (i) 
 
 WRD—the R&D expenses managed by our WRD organization, which is generally responsible for research projects for our IH business until proof-of-concept is achieved and then for transitioning those projects to the IH segment via the newly formed GPD organization for possible clinical and commercial development. R&D spending may include upfront and milestone payments for intellectual property rights. The WRD organization also has responsibility for certain science-based and other platform-services organizations, which provide technical expertise and other services to the various R&D projects, including EH R&D projects. WRD is also responsible for facilitating all regulatory submissions and interactions with regulatory agencies, including all safety-event activities. As noted above, in connection with the formation of the new EH R&D organization, certain functions transferred from WRD to the new EH R&D organization. We have reclassified approximately $274 million of costs in 2015 and $281 million of costs in 2014 from WRD to EH to conform to the current period presentation as part of EH. Also, in connection with the formation of the new GPD organization, beginning in the second quarter of 2016, certain development-related functions transferred from WRD to GPD. See note (ii) below for additional information. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (ii) 
 
 GPD––the costs associated with our newly formed GPD organization, which is generally responsible for the clinical development of assets that are in clinical trials for our WRD and Innovative portfolios. GPD also provides technical support and other services to Pfizer R&D projects. In connection with the formation in early 2016 of the GPD organization, effective in the second quarter of 2016, certain development-related functions transferred from WRD and IH to GPD. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 46 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 We have reclassified approximately $78 million of costs in the first quarter of 2016, $341 million of costs in 2015, and $343 million of costs in 2014 from WRD to GPD as well as $76 million of costs in the first quarter of 2016, $318 million of costs in 2015 and $271 million of costs in 2014 from IH to GPD to conform to the presentation as part of GPD in 2016. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (iii) 
 
 Medical—the costs associated with our Pfizer Medical organization (Medical), which, is responsible for the provision of medical information to healthcare providers, patients and other parties, transparency and disclosure activities, clinical trial results publication, grants for healthcare quality improvement and medical education, and partnerships with global public health and medical associations. In 2014 and 2015, Medical was also responsible for regulatory inspection readiness reviews, internal audits of Pfizer-sponsored clinical trials and internal regulatory compliance processes, which are now part of the compliance function within Corporate. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (iv) 
 
 Corporate—the costs associated with Corporate, representing platform functions (such as worldwide technology, global real estate operations, legal, finance, human resources, worldwide public affairs, compliance, and worldwide procurement) and certain compensation and other corporate costs, such as interest income and expense, and gains and losses on investments. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (v) 
 
 Other Unallocated—other unallocated costs, representing overhead expenses associated with our manufacturing and commercial operations that are not directly assessed to an operating segment as business unit (segment) management does not manage these costs (which include manufacturing variances associated with production). The increase in Cost of sales in 2016 reflects, among other items, the change in manufacturing variances driven by demand decreases versus plan for certain legacy Hospira and legacy Pfizer products. 
 For information purposes only, for 2016 , we estimate that Other costs, in the aggregate and as described above, but excluding (i) net interest-related expense not attributable to an operating segment included in Corporate (approximately $828 million in Other (income)/deductions––net ); and (ii) net income from investments and other assets not attributable to an operating segment included in Corporate (approximately $177 million in Other (income)/deductions––net ), are generally associated with our operating segments, as follows: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (PERCENTAGES) 
 
 
 
 IH 
 
 
 
 
 
 EH 
 
 
 WRD/GPD/Medical Costs 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses 
 
 
 
 70% - 72% 
 
 
 
 
 
 28% - 30% 
 
 
 Research and development expenses 
 
 
 
 98% - 100% 
 
 
 
 
 
 0% - 2% 
 
 
 Other (income)/deductions––net 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 Total WRD/GPD/Medical Costs 
 
 
 
 97% - 99% 
 
 
 
 
 
 1% - 3% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Corporate/Other Unallocated Costs 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 
 
 19% - 21% 
 
 
 
 
 
 79% - 81% 
 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses 
 
 
 
 52% - 54% 
 
 
 
 
 
 46% - 48% 
 
 
 Research and development expenses 
 
 
 
 84% - 86% 
 
 
 
 
 
 14% - 16% 
 
 
 Other (income)/deductions––net 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 Total Corporate/Other Unallocated Costs 
 
 
 
 48% - 50% 
 
 
 
 
 
 50% - 52% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total WRD/GPD/Medical and Corporate/Other Unallocated Costs 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of sales 
 
 
 
 19% - 21% 
 
 
 
 
 
 79% - 81% 
 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses 
 
 
 
 52% - 54% 
 
 
 
 
 
 46% - 48% 
 
 
 Research and development expenses 
 
 
 
 96% - 98% 
 
 
 
 
 
 2% - 4% 
 
 
 Other (income)/deductions––net 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 Total WRD/GPD/Medical and Corporate/Other Unallocated Costs 
 
 
 
 66% - 68% 
 
 
 
 
 
 32% - 34% 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 Amounts in the period may not necessarily be indicative of ongoing operating activity. After excluding net interest-related expense not attributable to an operating segment included in Corporate and net income from investments and other assets not attributable to an operating segment included in Corporate, Other (income)/deductions––net approximates $135 million of income for 2016. 
 The percentages provided in the table above do not purport to reflect the additional amounts that each of our operating segments would have incurred had each segment operated as a standalone company during the period presented. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 WRD/GPD/Medical –– The information provided in the table above for WRD, GPD and Medical was substantially all derived from our estimates of the costs incurred in connection with the R&D projects associated with each operating segment. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Corporate/Other Unallocated –– T he information provided in the table above for Corporate and Other Unallocated was derived using proportional allocation methods based on global, regional or country revenues or global, regional or country headcount, as well as certain cost metrics, as appropriate, such as those derived from R&D and manufacturing costs, and to a lesser extent, specific identification. Management believes that the allocations of Corporate and Other Unallocated costs are reasonable. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 See the “Adjusted Income” section of this Financial Review for a definition of these “Adjusted Income” components. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) 
 
 Includes costs associated with (i) purchase accounting adjustments; (ii) acquisition-related costs; and (iii) certain significant items, which are substantive and/or unusual, and in some cases recurring, items (such as restructuring or legal charges) that are evaluated on an individual basis by management. In 2014, certain significant items include revenues and expenses related to our manufacturing and supply agreements with Zoetis, which are part of Pfizer CentreOne. For additional information about these reconciling items and/or our Non-GAAP Adjusted measure of performance, see the “Adjusted Income” section of this Financial Review. 
 
 Innovative Health Operating Segment 
 
 2016 vs. 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 IH Revenues increased 9% to $29.2 billion in 2016 , compared to $26.8 billion in 2015 . Foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of 2% in 2016 , compared to 2015 . IH Revenues increased 11% operationally in 2016 , compared to the same period in 2015 . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 47 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following provides an analysis of 2016 revenue growth for IH: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 (BILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Acquisitions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Inclusion of Xtandi revenues in the U.S. resulting from the acquisition of Medivation in September 2016 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 0.1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Operational growth/(decline) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Continued operational growth from key brands including Ibrance, Lyrica, Xeljanz, Chantix/Champix and Consumer Healthcare, all primarily in the U.S., as well as Eliquis and Xalkori globally 
 
 
 
 3.6 
 
 
 
 
 Decline in Rebif revenues in the U.S. due to the year-end 2015 expiry of the collaboration agreement to co-promote Rebif in the U.S., as well as lower revenues for Enbrel in most developed Europe markets, primarily due to biosimilar competition 
 
 
 
 (0.6 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Decline in Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13 revenues, primarily driven by an expected decline in revenues for the adult indication in the U.S. due to a high initial capture rate of the eligible population following its successful fourth-quarter 2014 launch, which resulted in a smaller remaining “catch up” opportunity compared to the prior-year, as well as the unfavorable impact of the timing of government purchases for the pediatric indication 
 
 
 
 (0.5 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Other operational factors, net 
 
 
 
 0.4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Unfavorable impact of foreign exchange 
 
 
 
 (0.6 
 
 ) 
 
 
 IH Revenues growth in 2016 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 2.4 
 
 
 Total IH revenues from emerging markets were $3.7 billion in 2016 , compared to $4.0 billion in 2015 , reflecting 7% operational growth in 2016 , which was more than offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of 15% . 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Cost of sales as a percentage of Revenues increased slightly in 2016, compared to 2015 , due to the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange and an increase in royalty expense, partially offset by a favorable change in product mix, including an increase in alliance revenues, which have no associated cost of sales. The increase in Cost of sales of 11% in 2016 , compared to 2015 , was primarily driven by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange, an increase in royalty expense and an increase in sales volumes. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The increase in Selling, informational and administrative expenses of 6% in 2016 , compared to 2015 , reflects an increase in the allowance for doubtful trade accounts receivable, resulting from unfavorable developments with a distributor, and additional investment across several of our key products, partially offset by the favorable impact of foreign exchange. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The increase in Research and development expenses of 8% in 2016 , compared to 2015 , primarily reflects: 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 costs to close out studies for the global clinical development program for bococizumab that was discontinued in the fourth quarter of 2016, 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 increased costs associated with our oncology programs, primarily our avelumab alliance with Merck KGaA, and 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 the inclusion of three months of legacy Medivation operations in 2016, 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 ◦ 
 
 the non-recurrence of the $295 million upfront payment made to OPKO in the first quarter of 2015. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The unfavorable change in Other (income)/deductions––net in 2016 , compared to 2015 , primarily reflects the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange, a net decrease in royalty income and a decrease in our equity income from a certain equity-method investment. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 48 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2015 vs. 2014 
 • IH Revenues increased 11% to $26.8 billion in 2015 , compared to $24.0 billion in 2014 . Foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of 8% on IH revenues in 2015 , compared to 2014 . Revenues increased by 19% operationally in 2015 , compared to 2014 . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following provides an analysis of 2015 revenue growth for IH: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 (BILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Acquisitions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Inclusion of revenues associated with the acquisition of Baxter’s portfolio of marketed vaccines in Europe 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 0.2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Operational growth/(decline) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Increase in Prevnar family revenues, in the U.S., primarily driven by continued strong uptake of Prevnar 13 among adults following the positive recommendation from ACIP for use in adults aged 65 and older in the third quarter of 2014, and in certain emerging markets, primarily reflecting Prevenar’s inclusion in additional national immunization programs 
 
 
 
 2.1 
 
 
 
 
 Strong operational performance of Eliquis globally, Lyrica, primarily in the U.S. and Japan, as well as Xeljanz, Viagra and Chantix, all primarily in the U.S. 
 
 
 
 1.5 
 
 
 
 
 Continued strong momentum following the February 2015 U.S. launch of Ibrance for advanced breast cancer and, to a lesser extent, stronger demand for Xalkori, Sutent and Inlyta in most markets 
 
 
 
 0.9 
 
 
 
 
 A decline in Rapamune revenues in the U.S. due to generic competition, which began in October 2014 
 
 
 
 (0.1 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Declines in the hemophilia portfolio in the U.S. due to increased competition 
 
 
 
 (0.1 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Other operational factors, net 
 
 
 
 0.2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Unfavorable impact of foreign exchange 
 
 
 
 (1.9 
 
 ) 
 
 
 IH Revenues growth in 2015 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 2.8 
 
 
 Total IH revenues from emerging markets were $4.0 billion in 2015 , compared to $4.0 billion in 2014, reflecting 13% operational growth, which was offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of 12% . 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Cost of sales as a percentage of Revenues decreased 2.4 percentage points in 2015 , compared to 2014 , primarily driven by favorable product mix, favorable foreign exchange and a decrease in royalty expense. The decrease in Cost of sales of 5% in 2015 , compared to 2014 , was primarily driven by favorable foreign exchange and, to a lesser extent, a decrease in royalty expense, partially offset by an increase in sales volumes, driven primarily by continued strong uptake of Prevnar 13 among adults, as well as the acquisition of Baxter’s portfolio of marketed vaccines in Europe. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The increase in Selling, informational and administrative expenses of 10% in 2015 , compared to 2014 , reflects higher promotional expenses in the U.S., primarily for newly launched Consumer Healthcare product line extensions, Prevnar 13 in adults and Ibrance and additional investment in Eliquis, Lyrica and certain other products, partially offset by favorable foreign exchange. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The increase in Research and development expenses of 19% in 2015 , compared to 2014 , primarily reflects the $295 million upfront payment to OPKO made in the first quarter of 2015, increased investment in certain late-stage pipeline programs, primarily bococizumab, and increased costs associated with our vaccine and oncology programs, primarily our anti-PD-L1 alliance with Merck KGaA and Ibrance, partially offset by lower clinical trial expenses for certain previously approved products as well as for Trumenba, Prevnar 13 adult and certain oncology products. 
 
 Essential Health Operating Segment 
 
 2016 vs. 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 EH Revenues increased 7% to $23.6 billion in 2016 , compared to $22.1 billion in 2015 . Foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of 4% in 2016 , compared to 2015 . EH Revenues excluding the contribution from the legacy Hospira portfolio, decreased 8% , or 3% operationally, in 2016 , compared to 2015 . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following provides an analysis of 2016 revenue growth for EH: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 (BILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Acquisitions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Twelve months of revenues from legacy Hospira global operations in 2016, compared to four months of legacy Hospira U.S. operations and three months of legacy Hospira international operations in 2015 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 3.1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Operational growth/(decline) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Decline from the Peri-LOE Products portfolio, primarily due to the loss of exclusivity and associated generic competition for certain Peri-LOE Products, primarily Zyvox in the U.S. and certain developed Europe markets as well as Lyrica in certain developed Europe markets 
 
 
 
 (1.0 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Operational growth in the legacy Pfizer Sterile Injectable Pharmaceuticals portfolio, mostly in emerging markets and the U.S. 
 
 
 
 0.3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Unfavorable impact of foreign exchange 
 
 
 
 (0.9 
 
 ) 
 
 
 EH Revenues growth in 2016 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1.5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 49 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Total EH revenues from emerging markets were $6.7 billion in 2016 , compared to $7.1 billion in 2015 , reflecting 7% operational growth in 2016 , driven by the inclusion of legacy Hospira operations and 17% operational growth from the legacy Pfizer Sterile Injectable Pharmaceuticals portfolio and 3% operational growth from the Legacy Established Products portfolio, which was more than offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of 13% . 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Cost of sales as a percentage of Revenues increased 4.4 percentage points in 2016 , compared to 2015 , primarily due to the inclusion of a full year of legacy Hospira global operations in 2016 , compared to the inclusion of only four months of legacy Hospira U.S. operations and three months of legacy Hospira international operations in 2015 , the unfavorable impact of product losses of exclusivity and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange. The increase in Cost of sales of 28% in 2016 , compared to 2015 , was driven by the inclusion of a full year of legacy Hospira global operations in 2016 , compared to the inclusion of only four months of legacy Hospira U.S. operations and three months of legacy Hospira international operations in 2015 and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange, partially offset by lower volumes across the Legacy Established Products portfolio and the impact of products losing exclusivity. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses decreased 3% in 2016 , compared to 2015 , primarily due to the favorable impact of foreign exchange, lower advertising, promotional and field force expenses, reflecting the benefits of cost-reduction and productivity initiatives, and lower general and administrative expenses, partially offset by the inclusion of a full year of legacy Hospira global operations in 2016 , compared to the inclusion of only four months of legacy Hospira U.S. operations and three months of legacy Hospira international operations in 2015. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Research and development expenses increased 19% in 2016 , compared to 2015 , reflecting the inclusion of a full year of legacy Hospira global operations in 2016 , compared to the inclusion of only four months of legacy Hospira U.S. operations and three months of legacy Hospira international operations in 2015 and increased investment primarily in legacy Hospira biosimilar and sterile injectable development programs. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The favorable change in Other (income)/deductions––net in 2016 , compared to 2015 , primarily reflects resolution of a contract disagreement, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange. 
 
 2015 vs. 2014: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 EH Revenues decreased 13% to $22.1 billion in 2015, compared to $25.4 billion to 2014. Foreign exchange had an unfavorable impact of 7% on EH revenues in 2015, compared to 2014. Revenues decreased by 6% operationally in 2015. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following provides an analysis of 2015 revenue decline for EH: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 (BILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Acquisitions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Hospira 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1.5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Operational growth/(decline) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Loss of exclusivity and associated launch of multi-source generic competition for Celebrex in the U.S. in December 2014, for Zyvox in the U.S. beginning in the first half of 2015, for Lyrica in certain developed Europe markets beginning in the first quarter of 2015, and Inspra in developed Europe markets beginning in August 2014 
 
 
 
 (2.5 
 
 ) 
 
 
 The decline in Zosyn/Tazocin revenues due to a disruption in supply due to manufacturing issues 
 
 
 
 (0.2 
 
 ) 
 
 
 The termination of the co-promotion collaboration for Spiriva 
 
 
 
 (0.1 
 
 ) 
 
 
 A decline in Lipitor revenues in developed markets as a result of continued generic competition 
 
 
 
 (0.2 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Growth in emerging markets (excluding legacy Hospira) 
 
 
 
 0.2 
 
 
 
 
 Other operational factors, net 
 
 
 
 (0.2 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Unfavorable impact of foreign exchange 
 
 
 
 (1.9 
 
 ) 
 
 
 EH Revenues decline in 2015 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (3.3 
 
 ) 
 Total EH revenues from emerging markets were $7.1 billion in 2015, compared to $7.5 billion in 2014, reflecting 3% operational growth, which was more than offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange of 9% . 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Cost of sales as a percentage of Revenues increased 3.5 percentage points in 2015, compared to 2014, primarily due to the impact of losses of exclusivity resulting in an unfavorable change in product mix and the inclusion of legacy Hospira operations, partially offset by favorable foreign exchange. The increase in Cost of sales of 3% in 2015, compared to 2014, was primarily driven by the inclusion of legacy Hospira operations, partially offset by favorable foreign exchange and lower volumes as a result of products losing exclusivity. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Selling, informational and administrative expenses decreased 8% in 2015, compared to 2014, primarily due to lower field force, advertising and promotional expenses reflecting the benefits of cost-reduction and productivity initiatives, as well as favorable foreign exchange, partially offset by the inclusion of legacy Hospira operations, an increase in certain general and administrative expenses and higher cost for the U.S. Branded Prescription Drug Fee compared to the prior year. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Research and development expenses increased 10% in 2015, compared to 2014, reflecting the inclusion of legacy Hospira operations and increased investment in biosimilar development programs and sterile injectable development programs acquired as part of our acquisition of InnoPharma, partially offset by lower clinical trial expenses related to postmarketing commitments, primarily Celebrex and Pristiq. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 The unfavorable change in Other (income)/deductions––net of 45% in 2015, compared to 2014 , primarily reflects the non-recurrence of prior year gains on the sale of product rights, unfavorable foreign exchange and a decrease in our equity income from our equity-method investment in China (Hisun Pfizer), partially offset by other income gains. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 50 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ANALYSIS OF THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
 
 Changes in the components of Accumulated other comprehensive loss reflect the following: 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 Foreign currency translation adjustments, net, primarily reflects the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the U.K. pound, Chinese renminbi, Mexican peso, and Argentine peso, partially offset by the weakening of the U.S. dollar against the Australian dollar and Japanese yen. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Unrealized holding gains/(losses) on derivative financial instruments, net and Unrealized holding gains/(losses) on available-for-sale securities, net, reflects the impact of fair value remeasurements and the reclassification of realized amounts into income. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 7. Financial Instruments . 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Benefit plans: actuarial losses, net, reflects the actuarial losses related primarily to a decrease in the discount rate, partially offset by (i) the amortization of changes in the pension benefit obligation previously recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, and (ii) higher actual return on plan assets as compared to the expected return on plan assets. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 11. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans and Defined Contribution Plans and the “Significant Accounting Policies and Application of Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions––Benefit Plans” section of this Financial Review. 
 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Foreign currency translation adjustments, net, reflects primarily the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the euro, Brazilian real, Canadian dollar, Australian dollar, British pound, Mexican peso and Japanese yen. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Unrealized holding gains/(losses) on derivative financial instruments, net and Unrealized holding gains/(losses) on available-for-sale securities, net, reflects the impact of fair value remeasurements and the reclassification of realized amounts into income. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 7. Financial Instruments . 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Benefit plans: actuarial losses, net, primarily reflects the reclassification into income of amounts related to (i) the amortization of changes in the pension benefit obligation previously recognized in Other comprehensive income, (ii) lower actual return on plan assets as compared to the expected return on assets, and (iii) settlement activity, as well as the impact of foreign exchange. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 11. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans and Defined Contribution Plans and the “Significant Accounting Policies and Application of Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions––Benefit Plans” section of this Financial Review. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Benefit plans: prior service credits and other, net, reflects a $507 million reduction in our U.S. Postretirement Plan obligation due to a plan amendment approved in June 2015 that introduced a cap on costs for certain groups within the plan, partially offset by the reclassification into income of amounts related to (i) amortization of changes in prior service costs and credits previously recognized in Other comprehensive income and (ii) curtailment activity. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 11. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans and Defined Contribution Plans . 
 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Foreign currency translation adjustments , reflects primarily the weakening of the euro against the U.S. dollar, and, to a lesser, extent the weakening of the Japanese yen, Canadian dollar, Brazilian real and U.K. pound against the U.S. dollar. Also, includes the reclassification of amounts associated with legal entity dispositions into income. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Unrealized holding gains/(losses) on derivative financial instruments , net and Unrealized holding gains/(losses) on available-for-sale securities , net, reflects the impact of fair value remeasurements and the reclassification of realized amounts into income. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 7. Financial Instruments . 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Benefit plans: actuarial losses, net, reflects the actuarial losses related primarily to a decrease in the discount rate. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 11. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans and Defined Contribution Plans and the “Significant Accounting Policies and Application of Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions––Benefit Plans” section of this Financial Review. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Benefit plans: prior service credits and other, net, reflects an amendment to our post-retirement plans that decreased the benefit obligation by transferring certain plan participants to a retiree drug coverage program eligible for a Medicare Part D plan subsidy. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 11. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans and Defined Contribution Plans . 
 
 ANALYSIS OF THE CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
 
 For information about certain of our financial assets and liabilities, including Cash and cash equivalents, Short-term investments, Long-term investments, Short-term borrowings, including current portion of long-term debt , and Long-term debt , see the “Analysis of the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows” and “Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources: Selected Measures of Liquidity and Capital Resources” sections of this Financial Review and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 7. Financial Instruments . 
 For information about certain balances in Trade accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful accounts, s ee also the “Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources: Selected Measures of Liquidity and Capital Resources: Accounts Receivable” section of this Financial Review. 
 
 For information about events and circumstances impacting our tax-related accounts, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 5. Tax Matters . 
 For a description of changes in Total Equity , see the consolidated statements of equity. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 51 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 For information related to changes in Accumulated other comprehensive loss , see the “Analysis of the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income” section of this Financial Review and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 6. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss, Excluding Noncontrolling Interests . 
 
 The changes in our asset and liability accounts as of December 31, 2016 , compared to December 31, 2015 , generally reflect, among other things, the impact of assets acquired and liabilities assumed as part of the acquisitions of Medivation, Bamboo and Anacor (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 2A. Acquisitions, Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Agreements, Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements, Equity-Method Investments and Cost-Method Investment : Acquisitions and Note 10. Identifiable Intangible Assets and Goodwill for additional information), the reclassification to assets and liabilities held for sale in connection with the sale of Pfizer’s global infusion therapy net assets, HIS, to ICU Medical (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 2B. Acquisitions, Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Agreements, Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements, Equity-Method Investments and Cost-Method Investment : Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale and Note 10. Identifiable Intangible Assets and Goodwill for additional information) and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates . The following explanations exclude the impact of the acquisitions of Medivation, Bamboo and Anacor, the sale of HIS to ICU Medical and foreign exchange. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Trade accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful accounts, the change reflects the timing of sales and collections in the normal course of business and an increase in the allowance for doubtful accounts, resulting from unfavorable developments with a distributor. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Inventories, the change reflects planned inventory reductions, including those related to demand, and the sell through of inventory acquired through the Hospira acquisition, partially offset by the build of inventory for new product launches. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Other current assets, the change reflects an increase in VAT receivable balances due to a change in our supply chain, as well as the timing of receipts and payments in the normal course of business. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For PP&E, the change reflects depreciation during the period offset by capital additions in the normal course of business. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Identifiable intangible assets, less accumulated amortization , the change primarily reflects amortization and impairments for the period (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements —Note 4. Other (Income)/Deductions—Net for additional information on impairments for the period). 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Other noncurrent assets, the change reflects a reduction in receivables associated with our derivative financial instruments, partially offset by an increase in noncurrent VAT receivable balances due to a change in our supply chain. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Trade accounts payable, the change reflects the timing of purchases and payments in the normal course of business, including efforts to improve working capital efficiencies. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Accrued compensation and related items, the increase reflects accruals, partially offset by 2015’s bonus payments made to employees. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Other current liabilities , the change reflects consideration due for the acquisition of Medivation (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 2A. Acquisitions, Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Agreements, Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements, Equity-Method Investments and Cost-Method Investment : Acquisitions ), the payment to resolve claims relating to Protonix and accruals for certain legal matters (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements —Note 17A5. Commitments and Contingencies: Legal Proceedings –– Matters Resolved During 2016 ), a reduction in payables associated with our derivative financial instruments, payments for interest and the timing of other accruals and payments in the normal course of business partially offset by increases related to restructuring matters, closeout of bococizumab clinical studies and accrued healthcare fees. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Pension benefit obligations, net, and Postretirement benefit obligations, net , the change reflects a $1.0 billion voluntary pension contribution in January 2016, a decrease in our discount rate assumption used in the measurement of the plan obligations, as well as the information provided in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 11. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans and Defined Contribution Plans. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Other noncurrent liabilities , the change reflects an increase in the payables associated with our restructuring matters, deferred revenue from a co-development agreement and our derivative financial instruments, partially offset by payments and accruals for certain legal matters, and changes in accruals in the normal course of business. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Accumulated other comprehensive loss , the change for 2016 reflects, among other changes, foreign currency translation adjustments and actuarial losses. For additional information see the “Analysis of the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income” section of this Financial Review. 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 For Treasury stock, the change reflects $5 billion paid to GS&Co. in March 2016 pursuant to the terms of an accelerated share repurchase agreement. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 12. Equity for additional information. 
 
 ANALYSIS OF THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 % Change 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 16/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 15/14 
 
 
 
 
 Cash provided by/(used in): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Operating activities (a) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 15,901 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 14,688 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 17,084 
 
 
 
 
 
 8 
 
 
 
 
 
 (14 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Investing activities 
 
 
 
 (7,811 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (2,980 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (5,654 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 (47 
 
 ) 
 
 
 Financing activities (a) 
 
 
 
 (8,921 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (10,409 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (10,187 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (14 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 Effect of exchange-rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 
 
 
 
 (215 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (1,000 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (83 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 (79 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 Net increase/(decrease) in Cash and cash equivalents 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (1,046 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 298 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 1,160 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 
 
 
 
 (74 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 * 
 
 Calculation not meaningful. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 52 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 Amounts reflect the adoption of a new accounting standard in the fourth quarter of 2016, as of January 1, 2016, that requires that cash flows present (i) excess tax benefits as Other tax accounts, net as part of operating activities, rather than financing activities on a prospective basis beginning in the year of adoption, and (ii) cash paid by us when directly withholding shares for tax-withholding purposes as a cash outflow from financing activities, rather than operating activities and is reflected in the year of adoption and retrospectively in 2015 and 2014. The year-to-date excess tax benefit was $26 million, $51 million, $87 million, and $91 million in each of the first, second, third and fourth quarters of 2016, respectively. For cash paid by us for withholding purposes, $137 million for 2016 is presented as financing activities in the consolidated statements of cash flows, and cash outflows of $189 million for 2015 and $195 million for 2014 were reclassified from operating activities to financing activities in the consolidated statements of cash flows, respectively. (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — Note 1B. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies: Adoption of New Accounting Standards ) . 
 
 In the consolidated statements of cash flows, the line ITEM, Other changes in assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions and divestitures , is presented excluding the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, as these changes do not reflect actual cash inflows or outflows, and excluding any other significant non-cash movements. Accordingly, the amounts shown will not necessarily agree with the changes in the assets and liabilities that are presented in our consolidated balance sheets. 
 
 Operating Activities 
 
 2016 v. 2015 
 
 Our net cash provided by operating activities was $15.9 billion in 2016 , compared to $14.7 billion in 2015 . The increase in net cash provided by operating activities reflects the increase in our net income after adjustments for the non-cash changes, as well as the timing of receipts from customers and payments to vendors in the ordinary course of business, partially offset by an increase in bonus payments made to employees. 
 In 2016, the change in the line ITEM called Other adjustments, net, primarily reflects, among other items, the increase in the provision for bad debt expense and a decrease in net realized gains on sale of available-for-sale securities, partially offset by the non-cash changes in the equity losses related to Hisun and Teuto. In addition, the adoption of a new accounting standard in 2016 required that cash paid by us when directly withholding shares for tax withholding purposes is shown as a cash outflow from financing activities rather than operating activities. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 1B. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies: Adoption of New Accounting Standards. 
 In 2016 and 2015 , the line ITEM Other changes in assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions and divestitures, primarily reflects changes, in the normal course of business, in trade accounts receivable, inventories, other current assets, other noncurrent assets, trade accounts payable, accrued compensation and other current and non-current liabilities. For 2016 and 2015, this line ITEM also includes the adjustments necessary to reflect the payments of certain legal claims accrued in prior periods, including for 2016, Protonix-related matters, and for 2015, Neurontin-related matters, partially offset by the deferral of an upfront payment received from Lilly as part of a collaborative arrangement. For additional information about accounts receivable, see also the “Selected Measures of Liquidity and Capital Resources: Accounts Receivable” section of this Financial Review. For additional information about our legal accruals, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 4. Other (Income)/Deductions—Net. 
 
 2015 v. 2014 
 
 Our net cash provided by operating activities was $14.7 billion in 2015 , compared to $17.1 billion in 2014 . The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities reflects the decrease in our net income after adjustments for the non-cash changes, as well as a $1.0 billion voluntary pension contribution in January 2015, and the timing of other receipts and payments in the ordinary course of business, including higher payments related to certain liabilities associated with legal matters, partially offset by the upfront cash payment of $850 million in 2014 in connection with our collaborative arrangement with Merck KGaA. 
 
 In 2015, the change in the line ITEM called Other adjustments, net, primarily reflects the non-cash changes in the equity losses related to the Hisun and ViiV equity-method investments. 
 
 In 2015 and 2014 , the line ITEM Other changes in assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions and divestitures, primarily reflects changes, in the normal course of business, in accounts receivable, inventories, other current assets, other noncurrent assets, accounts payable, accrued compensation and other current and non-current liabilities. For 2015, this line ITEM also includes the adjustments necessary to reflect the payments of certain liabilities associated with legal matters accrued in prior periods, including Neurontin-related matters, partially offset by the deferral of an upfront payment received as part of our tanezumab collaborative arrangement. For additional information about accounts receivable, see also the “Selected Measures of Liquidity and Capital Resources: Accounts Receivable” section of this Financial Review. For additional information about our legal accruals, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 4. Other (Income)/Deductions—Net. 
 
 Investing Activities 
 
 2016 v. 2015 
 
 Our net cash used in investing activities was $7.8 billion in 2016 , compared to net cash used in investing activities of $3.0 billion in 2015 . The increase in net cash used in investing activities was primarily attributable to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 net redemptions/proceeds from sale of investments of $12.5 billion in 2016 , compared to net redemptions/proceeds of investments of $14.6 billion in 2015 ; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 cash paid of $18.4 billion , net of cash acquired, primarily for the acquisitions of Medivation, Bamboo and Anacor in 2016 compared to cash paid of $16.5 billion , net of cash acquired, primarily for the acquisition of Hospira and the acquisition of Baxter’s portfolio of marketed vaccines in 2015 . (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 2A. Acquisitions, Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Agreements, Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements, Equity-Method Investments and Cost-Method Investment : Acquisitions ). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 53 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2015 v. 2014 
 
 Our net cash used in investing activities was $3.0 billion in 2015 , compared to $5.7 billion in 2014 . The decrease in net cash used in investing activities was primarily attributable to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 net redemptions/proceeds from sale of investments of $14.6 billion in 2015 , compared to net purchases of investments of $4.2 billion in 2014 , 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 cash paid of $16.5 billion , net of cash acquired, primarily for the acquisition of Hospira and the acquisition of Baxter’s portfolio of marketed vaccines in 2015 . (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 2A. Acquisitions, Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Agreements, Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements, Equity-Method Investments and Cost-Method Investment : Acquisitions ). 
 
 Financing Activities 
 
 2016 v. 2015 
 
 Our net cash used in financing activities was $8.9 billion in 2016 , compared to net cash used in financing activities of $10.4 billion in 2015 . The decrease in net cash used in financing activities was primarily attributable to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the issuance of long-term debt of $11 billion on June 3, 2016 and November 21, 2016; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 purchases of common stock of $5.0 billion in 2016 , compared to $6.2 billion in 2015 , 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 net payments on short-term borrowings of $714 million in 2016 , compared to net proceeds on short-term borrowings of $4.3 billion in 2015 ; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 higher repayments on long-term debt of $7.7 billion in 2016, compared to $3.0 billion in 2015; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 higher cash dividends paid of $7.3 billion in 2016 , compared to $6.9 billion in 2015 ; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 lower proceeds from the exercise of stock options of $1.0 billion in 2016 , compared to $1.3 billion in 2015 . 
 
 2015 v. 2014 
 
 Our net cash used in financing activities was $10.4 billion in 2015 , compared to $10.2 billion in 2014 . The increase in net cash used in financing activities was primarily attributable to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 net principal payments on long-term debt of $3.0 billion in 2015, compared to net proceeds from issuance of long-term debt of $2.4 billion in 2014; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 purchases of common stock of $6.2 billion in 2015 , compared to $5.0 billion in 2014 , 
 partially offset by: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 net proceeds from short-term borrowings of $4.3 billion in 2015 , compared to net payments on short-term borrowings of $1.8 billion in 2014 . 
 
 Supplemental Schedule of Non-Cash Investing and Financing Information 
 
 In 2015, we exchanged $1.7 billion debt of Hospira for virtually the same amount of Pfizer debt. 
 
 For further details on the 2015 debt exchange, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 7D. Financial Instruments: Long-Term Debt. 
 
 ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 
 
 We rely largely on operating cash flows, short-term investments, short-term commercial paper borrowings and long-term debt to provide for our liquidity requirements. We continue our efforts to improve cash inflows through working capital efficiencies. We target specific areas of focus including accounts receivable, inventories, accounts payable, and other working capital, which allows us to optimize our operating cash flows. Due to our significant operating cash flows as well as our financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we believe that we have, and will maintain, the ability to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future, which include: 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the working capital requirements of our operations, including our R&D activities; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 investments in our business; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 dividend payments and potential increases in the dividend rate; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 share repurchases; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 the cash requirements associated with our cost-reduction/productivity initiatives; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 paying down outstanding debt; 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 contributions to our pension and postretirement plans; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 • 
 
 business-development activities. 
 For additional information about our share-purchase plans, see the “Share-Purchase Plans and Accelerated Share Repurchase Agreements” section of this Financial Review. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 54 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Our long-term debt is rated high-quality by both S&P and Moody’s. See the “Credit Ratings” section below. As market conditions change, we continue to monitor our liquidity position. We have taken and will continue to take a conservative approach to our financial investments. Both short-term and long-term investments consist primarily of high-quality, highly liquid, well-diversified available-for-sale debt securities. 
 
 Selected Measures of Liquidity and Capital Resources 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following table provides certain relevant measures of our liquidity and capital resources: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 As of December 31, 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS, EXCEPT RATIOS AND PER COMMON SHARE DATA) 
 
 
 
 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 2015 
 
 
 
 
 Selected financial assets: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Cash and cash equivalents (a) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 2,595 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 3,641 
 
 
 
 
 Short-term investments (a) 
 
 
 
 15,255 
 
 
 
 
 
 19,649 
 
 
 
 
 Long-term investments (a) 
 
 
 
 7,116 
 
 
 
 
 
 15,999 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 24,967 
 
 
 
 
 
 39,290 
 
 
 
 
 Debt (b) : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Short-term borrowings, including current portion of long-term debt 
 
 
 
 10,688 
 
 
 
 
 
 10,159 
 
 
 
 
 Long-term debt 
 
 
 
 31,398 
 
 
 
 
 
 28,740 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 42,085 
 
 
 
 
 
 38,899 
 
 
 
 
 Selected net financial assets/(liabilities) (c) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 (17,118 
 
 ) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 391 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Working capital (d) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 7,834 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 14,405 
 
 
 
 
 Ratio of current assets to current liabilities (d) 
 
 
 
 1.25:1 
 
 
 
 
 
 1.49:1 
 
 
 
 
 Total Pfizer Inc. shareholders’ equity per common share (e) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 9.81 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 10.48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 7. Financial Instruments for a description of certain assets held and for a description of credit risk related to our financial instruments held. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 We adopted a new accounting standard as of January 1, 2016 that changed the presentation of debt issuance costs related to a recognized debt liability as a direct deduction from the carrying value of that associated debt, consistent with the presentation of a debt discount. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 1B. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies: Adoption of New Accounting Standards. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 The change in selected net financial assets/(liabilities) is predominantly a result of cash paid for acquisitions of businesses, particularly Medivation and Anacor. We retain a strong financial liquidity position as a result of our net cash provided by operating activities, our high quality financial asset portfolio and access to capital markets. Both Moody’s and S&P rating agencies maintained our strong investment-grade corporate debt-rating subsequent to the acquisitions. For additional information, see the “Credit Ratings” section of this Financial Review. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) 
 
 The decrease in working capital is primarily due to a decrease in short-term investments and an increase in short-term borrowings, and the timing of accruals, cash receipts and payments in the ordinary course of business, partially offset by the reclassification of Assets held for sale (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 2B. Acquisitions, Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Agreements, Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements, Equity-Method Investments and Cost-Method Investment : Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale ). 
 
 
 
 
 
 (e) 
 
 Represents total Pfizer Inc. shareholders’ equity divided by the actual number of common shares outstanding (which excludes treasury stock). 
 
 For additional information about the sources and uses of our funds, see the “Analysis of the Consolidated Balance Sheets ” and “ Analysis of the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows ” sections of this Financial Review. 
 
 On November 21, 2016, we completed a public offering of $6.0 billion aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes with a weighted-average effective interest rate of 3.10% (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 7D. Financial Instruments: Long-Term Debt ). 
 
 On June 3, 2016, we completed a public offering of $5.0 billion aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes with a weighted-average effective interest rate of 2.09% (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 7D. Financial Instruments: Long-Term Debt ). 
 
 On May 15, 2014, we completed a public offering of $4.5 billion aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes with a weighted average effective interest rate of 2.26%. 
 
 Domestic and International Short-Term Funds 
 
 Many of our operations are conducted outside the U.S., and significant portions of our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments are held internationally. We generally hold up to $10 billion of these short-term funds in U.S. tax jurisdictions. The amount of funds held in U.S. tax jurisdictions can fluctuate due to the timing of receipts and payments in the ordinary course of business and due to other reasons, such as business-development activities. As part of our ongoing liquidity assessments, we regularly monitor the mix of domestic and international cash flows (both inflows and outflows). Repatriation of overseas funds can result in additional U.S. federal, state and local income tax payments. We record U.S. deferred tax liabilities for certain unremitted earnings, but when amounts earned overseas are expected to be indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S., no accrual for U.S. taxes is provided. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 55 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Accounts Receivable 
 
 We continue to monitor developments regarding government and government agency receivables in several European markets where economic conditions remain challenging and uncertain. Historically, payments from a number of these European governments and government agencies extend beyond the contractual terms of sale. Specifically, we received delayed payments for 2015 revenues and delayed payments for 2016 revenues from the Greek government; the vast majority of Greece government receivables pertain to 2016 revenues. Also, the Greek government has restructured its debt to other third parties in the third quarter of 2016. We adjusted our allowance for doubtful accounts to reflect these events, and have $43 million in net receivables from the Greek government as of December 31, 2016 . Reported revenues from all customers in Greece for the year ended December 31, 2016 were $278 million. 
 
 We believe that our allowance for doubtful accounts is appropriate. Our assessment is based on an analysis of the following: (i) payments received to date; (ii) the consistency of payments from customers; (iii) direct and observed interactions with the governments (including court petitions) and with market participants (for example, the factoring industry); and (iv) various third-party assessments of repayment risk (for example, rating agency publications and the movement of rates for credit default swap instruments). 
 
 As of December 31, 2016 , we had about $574 million aggregate gross accounts receivable from governments and/or government agencies in Italy, Spain, Greece and Portugal where economic conditions remain challenging and uncertain. Such receivables in excess of one year from the invoice date, totaling $70 million, were as follows: $44 million in Italy; $18 million in Portugal; $4 million in Greece; and $4 million in Spain. 
 
 Although certain European governments and government agencies sometimes delay payments beyond the contractual terms of sale, we seek to appropriately balance repayment risk with the desire to maintain good relationships with our customers and to ensure a humanitarian approach to local patient needs. 
 
 We will continue to closely monitor repayment risk and, when necessary, we will continue to adjust our allowance for doubtful accounts. 
 
 Our assessments about the recoverability of accounts receivables can result from a complex series of judgments about future events and uncertainties and can rely heavily on estimates and assumptions. For information about the risks associated with estimates and assumptions, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 1C. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies: Estimates and Assumptions . 
 
 Credit Ratings 
 
 Two major corporate debt-rating organizations, Moody’s and S&P, assign ratings to our short-term and long-term debt. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and the rating is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating organization. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following table provides the current ratings assigned by these rating agencies to our commercial paper and senior unsecured long-term debt: 
 
 
 NAME OF RATING AGENCY 
 
 
 
 Pfizer 
 Commercial Paper 
 
 
 
 Pfizer 
 Long-Term Debt 
 
 
 
 Date of Last Rating Change 
 
 
 
 
 Rating 
 
 
 
 Rating 
 
 
 
 
 Moody’s (a) 
 
 
 
 P-1 
 
 
 
 A1 
 
 
 
 October 2009 
 
 
 S&P (b) 
 
 
 
 A-1+ 
 
 
 
 AA 
 
 
 
 October 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 In September 2016, Moody's updated its credit outlook from negative outlook to stable. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 In April 2016, S&P updated its credit outlook from negative watch to stable. 
 
 Debt Capacity 
 
 We have available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements with a group of banks and other financial intermediaries. We maintain cash and cash equivalent balances and short-term investments in excess of our commercial paper and other short-term borrowings. As of December 31, 2016 , we had access to $7.9 billion of lines of credit, of which $790 million expire within one year. Of these lines of credit, $7.8 billion were unused, of which our lenders have committed to loan us $7.1 billion at our request. Also, $7.0 billion of our unused lines of credit, all of which expire in 2021, may be used to support our commercial paper borrowings. 
 
 Global Economic Conditions––General 
 
 The global economic environment has not had, nor do we anticipate that it will have, a material impact on our liquidity or capital resources. Due to our significant operating cash flows, financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we continue to believe that we have, and will maintain, the ability to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future. We monitor our liquidity position continuously in the face of evolving economic conditions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 56 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Global Economic Conditions––U.K. 
 In June 2016, the U.K. electorate voted in a referendum to leave the EU, which is commonly referred to as “Brexit”. The U.K. government has not formally notified the European Council of their intention to leave the EU. In January 2017, the U.K. Parliament voted in favor of legislation to give the Prime Minister the power to trigger Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty to begin the two-year negotiation process establishing the terms of the exit and outlining the future relationship between the U.K. and the EU. The U.K. Prime Minister has said the negotiations are expected to begin at the end of March 2017. This process is expected to be highly complex, and, in January 2017, the Prime Minister announced a 12-point plan of negotiating objectives and confirmed that the U.K. government will not seek continued membership of the EU single market. The end result of these negotiations may pose certain implications to our research, commercial and general business operations in the U.K. and the EU. 
 
 We generated approximately 2% of our worldwide revenues from the U.K. in 2016. However, except for the foreign currency exchange impact from the weakening U.K. pound relative to the U.S. dollar to date, there are no other immediate-term impacts to our business as there has not yet been a formal change in the relationship between the U.K. and the EU. In addition, because of the significant uncertainties associated with the negotiation process, any potential long-term impacts are not currently determinable. 
 Global Economic Conditions––Venezuela Operations 
 
 Our Venezuela operations continue to operate with the U.S. dollar as the functional currency due to the hyperinflationary status of the Venezuelan economy. 
 
 In the second quarter of 2015, the Venezuelan government identified three official rates of exchange. These are the CENCOEX rate of 6.3; the SICAD rate of 13.5 (as of February 2017); and the SIMADI rate of 700 (as of February 2017). Effective in March 2016, the CENCOEX rate was replaced by the DIPRO rate of 10 (as of February 2017); the SICAD rate ceased to be offered; and the SIMADI rate was planned to be replaced by the DICOM rate, but the DICOM rate is not published. The Venezuelan government continues to publish the SIMADI rate, which is commonly referred to as the DICOM rate, and that rate has grown from 206 in March 2016 to about 700 (as of February 2017). Based on conditions in Venezuela, we resolved that our Venezuelan bolivar-denominated net monetary assets that are subject to revaluation are no longer expected to be substantially settled at the Venezuelan government CENCOEX official rate of 6.3 or the DIPRO official rate of 10, but at a rate of 500 at the end of the second quarter and third quarter of 2016, and 670 at the end of the fourth quarter of 2016. 
 
 In 2015, conditions in Venezuela had us resolve that our Venezuelan bolivar-denominated net monetary assets that are subject to revaluation were no longer expected to be settled at the Venezuelan government CENCOEX official rate of 6.3, but at the then SIMADI rate of 200, the lowest official rate. Those conditions included the inability to obtain significant conversions of Venezuelan bolivars related to intercompany U.S. dollar-denominated accounts, an evaluation of the effects of the implementation of a fourth-quarter 2015 operational restructuring, resulting in a restructuring charge of $39 million related to a 36% reduction in our labor force in Venezuela, and our expectation of the changes in Venezuela’s responses to changes in its economy. The effect of that change in expectation was a foreign currency loss of $806 million recorded in the fourth quarter of 2015 included in Other (income)/deductions––net . See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 4. Other (Income)/Deductions—Net. In addition, in the fourth quarter of 2015, we had an inventory impairment loss of $72 million included in Cost of sales . 
 We cannot predict whether there will be further devaluations of the Venezuelan currency or whether our use of the DICOM rate will continue to be supported by evolving facts and circumstances. Further, other potential actions by the Venezuelan government in response to economic uncertainties could impact the recoverability of our investment in Venezuela, which could result in an impairment charge and, under extreme circumstances, could impact our ability to continue to operate in the country in the same manner as we have historically. We continue to operate under adverse conditions in Venezuela. 
 On July 11, 2016, the Venezuelan government administration announced a new program under a State of Emergency decree that is intended to control the use of raw materials, production and distribution of products, specifically for medicines and foods. It is uncertain how this program will be applied to Pfizer in Venezuela. We continue to operate in Venezuela and have $12 million of net monetary assets and $61 million of non-monetary assets, excluding inventory carried at lower of cost or market, in Venezuela at November 30, 2016, our international year-end. 
 
 Contractual Obligations 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Payments due under contractual obligations as of December 31, 2016, mature as follows: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Years 
 
 
 (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) 
 
 
 
 Total 
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 2018-2019 
 
 
 
 
 
 2020-2021 
 
 
 
 
 
 Thereafter 
 
 
 
 
 Long-term debt, including current portion (a) 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 35,623 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 4,225 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 6,917 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 4,601 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 19,879 
 
 
 
 
 Interest payments on long-term debt obligations (b) 
 
 
 
 19,604 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,247 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,464 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,281 
 
 
 
 
 
 13,612 
 
 
 
 
 Other long-term liabilities (c) 
 
 
 
 3,278 
 
 
 
 
 
 402 
 
 
 
 
 
 775 
 
 
 
 
 
 673 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,429 
 
 
 
 
 Operating Leases 
 
 
 
 1,801 
 
 
 
 
 
 220 
 
 
 
 
 
 351 
 
 
 
 
 
 263 
 
 
 
 
 
 967 
 
 
 
 
 Purchase obligations and other (d) 
 
 
 
 4,726 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,247 
 
 
 
 
 
 958 
 
 
 
 
 
 973 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,548 
 
 
 
 
 Uncertain tax positions (e) 
 
 
 
 48 
 
 
 
 
 
 48 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 Long-term debt consists of senior unsecured notes (including fixed and floating rate, foreign currency denominated, and other notes) and capital lease obligations (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 7. Financial Instruments ). Commitments under capital leases are not significant. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 Our calculations of expected interest payments incorporate only current period assumptions for interest rates, foreign currency translation rates and hedging strategies (see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 7. Financial Instruments ), and assume that interest is accrued through the maturity date or expiration of the related instrument. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) 
 
 Includes expected payments relating to our unfunded U.S. supplemental (non-qualified) pension plans, postretirement plans and deferred compensation plans. Excludes amounts relating to our U.S. qualified pension plans and international pension plans, all of which have a substantial amount of plan assets, because the required funding obligations are not expected to be material and/or because such liabilities do not necessarily reflect future cash payments, as the impact of changes in economic conditions on the fair value of the pension plan assets and/or liabilities can be significant. In January 2017, we made a $1.0 billion voluntary contribution to the U.S. qualified plans. We do not anticipate making any additional contributions to the U.S. qualified plans in 2017. Also, excludes $5.5 billion of 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 57 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 liabilities related to legal matters, employee terminations and the fair value of derivative financial instruments and other, most of which do not represent contractual obligations. See also our liquidity discussion above in this “Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources” section, as well as the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 3. Restructuring Charges and Other Costs Associated with Acquisitions and Cost-Reduction/Productivity Initiatives, Note 7A. Financial Instruments: Selected Financial Assets and Liabilities, Note 11E. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans and Defined Contribution Plans: Cash Flows, and Note 17. Commitments and Contingencies. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) 
 
 Includes agreements to purchase goods and services that are enforceable and legally binding and includes amounts relating to advertising, information technology services, employee benefit administration services, and potential milestone payments deemed reasonably likely to occur. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (e) 
 
 Includes only income tax amounts currently payable. We are unable to predict the timing of tax settlements related to our noncurrent obligations for uncertain tax positions as tax audits can involve complex issues and the resolution of those issues may span multiple years, particularly if subject to negotiation or litigation. 
 The above table includes amounts for potential milestone payments under collaboration, licensing or other arrangements, if the payments are deemed reasonably likely to occur. Payments under these agreements generally become due and payable only upon the achievement of certain development, regulatory and/or commercialization milestones, which may span several years and which may never occur. 
 
 In 2017 , we expect to spend approximately $1.9 billion on property, plant and equipment. We rely largely on operating cash flows to fund our capital investment needs. Due to our significant operating cash flows, we believe we have the ability to meet our capital investment needs and anticipate no delays to planned capital expenditures. 
 
 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 
 
 In the ordinary course of business and in connection with the sale of assets and businesses, we often indemnify our counterparties against certain liabilities that may arise in connection with a transaction or that are related to activities prior to a transaction. These indemnifications typically pertain to environmental, tax, employee and/or product-related matters, and patent-infringement claims. If the indemnified party were to make a successful claim pursuant to the terms of the indemnification, we would be required to reimburse the loss. These indemnifications generally are subject to threshold amounts, specified claim periods and other restrictions and limitations. Historically, we have not paid significant amounts under these provisions and, as of December 31, 2016 , recorded amounts for the estimated fair value of these indemnifications were not significant. 
 Certain of our co-promotion or license agreements give our licensors or partners the rights to negotiate for, or in some cases to obtain under certain financial conditions, co-promotion or other rights in specified countries with respect to certain of our products. 
 
 Share-Purchase Plans and Accelerated Share Repurchase Agreements 
 
 On October 23, 2014, we announced that the Board of Directors had authorized an $11 billion share-purchase plan, and share purchases commenced thereunder in January 2015. 
 
 On February 9, 2015, we entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement with GS&Co. to repurchase shares of our common stock. This agreement was entered into under our previously announced share repurchase authorization. Pursuant to the terms of the agreement, on February 11, 2015, we paid $5 billion to GS&Co. and received approximately 151 million shares of our common stock from GS&Co. This agreement was completed in July 2015, and pursuant to the agreement’s settlement terms, we elected to settle the agreement in cash and paid an additional $160 million to GS&Co. on July 13, 2015, resulting in a total of approximately $5.2 billion paid to GS&Co. The final average price paid for the shares delivered under the accelerated share repurchase agreement was $34.13 per share. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 12. Equity . 
 
 In December 2015, the Board of Directors authorized a new $11 billion share repurchase program to be utilized over time. 
 
 On March 8, 2016, we entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement with GS&Co. to repurchase $5 billion of our common stock. Pursuant to the terms of the agreement, on March 10, 2016, we paid $5 billion to GS&Co. and received an initial delivery of approximately 136 million shares of our common stock from GS&Co. based on a price of $29.36 per share, which represented, based on the closing share price of our common stock on the NYSE on March 8, 2016, approximately 80% of the notional amount of the accelerated share repurchase agreement. On June 20, 2016, the accelerated share repurchase agreement with GS&Co. was completed, which, per the terms of the agreement, resulted in GS&Co. owing us a certain number of shares of Pfizer common stock. Pursuant to the agreement’s settlement terms, we received an additional 18 million shares of our common stock from GS&Co. on June 20, 2016. The average price paid for all of the shares delivered under the accelerated share repurchase agreement was $32.38 per share. The common stock received is included in Treasury stock . This agreement was entered into pursuant to our previously announced share repurchase authorization. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 12. Equity . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following table provides the number of shares of our common stock purchased and the cost of purchases under our publicly announced share-purchase plans, including our accelerated share repurchase agreements: 
 
 
 (SHARES IN MILLIONS, DOLLARS IN BILLIONS) 
 
 
 
 2016 (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 2015 (b) 
 
 
 
 
 
 2014 
 
 
 
 
 Shares of common stock purchased 
 
 
 
 154 
 
 
 
 
 
 182 
 
 
 
 
 
 165 
 
 
 
 
 Cost of purchase 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 5.0 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 6.2 
 
 
 
 
 
 $ 
 
 5.0 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
 Represents shares purchased pursuant to and received upon settlement of the accelerated share repurchase agreement entered into on March 8, 2016. See above for additional information. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 
 
 Includes approximately 151 million shares purchased for $5.2 billion pursuant to the accelerated share repurchase agreement entered into on February 9, 2015 (see above for additional information), as well as other share repurchases through year-end 2015. 
 
 At December 31, 2016 , our remaining share-purchase authorization was approximately $11.4 billion . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 58 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 On February 2, 2017, we entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement with Citibank to repurchase $5 billion of our common stock. This agreement was entered into pursuant to our previously announced share repurchase authorization. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–– Note 19. Subsequent Event. 
 
 Dividends on Common Stock 
 
 We paid dividends on our common stock of $7.3 billion in 2016 , $6.9 billion in 2015 and $6.6 billion in 2014 . In December 2016 , our Board of Directors declared a first-quarter 2017 dividend of $0.32 per share, payable on March 1, 2017 , to shareholders of record at the close of business on February 3, 2017 . The first-quarter 2017 cash dividend will be our 313 th consecutive quarterly dividend. 
 
 Our current and projected dividends provide a return to shareholders while maintaining sufficient capital to invest in growing our businesses and to seek to increase shareholder value. Our dividends are not restricted by debt covenants. While the dividend level remains a decision of Pfizer’s Board of Directors and will continue to be evaluated in the context of future business performance, we currently believe that we can support future annual dividend increases, barring significant unforeseen events. 
 
 
 NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS 
 Recently Issued Accounting Standards, Not Adopted as of December 31, 2016 
 See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements— Note 1B. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies: Adoption of New Accounting Standards. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The following table provides a brief description of recently issued accounting standards, not yet adopted: 
 
 
 Standard/Description 
 
 
 
 Effective Date 
 
 
 
 Effect on the Financial Statements or Other Significant Matters 
 
 
 In October 2016, the FASB issued amended guidance on the assessment of whether an entity is the primary beneficiary of a VIE . Under this new guidance, when evaluating whether an entity is the primary beneficiary, a single decision maker must consider its indirect interest held through related parties under common control proportionately. 
 
 
 
 January 1, 2017. Earlier application is permitted, including adoption in an interim period. 
 
 
 
 The provisions of this new standard will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
 
 
 In July 2015, the FASB issued an update related to inventory . The new guidance requires that inventory be measured at the lower of cost or net realizable value. 
 
 
 
 January 1, 2017. 
 
 
 
 We do not expect the provisions of this new standard will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
 
 
 In May 2014, the FASB issued amended guidance related to revenue from contracts with customers . The new guidance introduces a new principles-based framework for revenue recognition and disclosure. Since its issuance the FASB has issued six ASUs, amending the guidance and effective date, and the SEC has rescinded certain related SEC guidance; the most recent of these changes was issued in December 2016. 
 
 
 
 January 1, 2018. Earlier application is permitted only as of annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim reporting periods within that reporting period. 
 
 
 
 
 We have made substantial progress in completing our review of the impact of this guidance across our various business arrangements and revenue related activities, and do not expect the adoption of this standard to have a material impact on our financial statements and revenue recognition practices, or our internal controls. Under the development portion of our collaboration agreements, we expect the milestone payments, which are recorded in Other (income)/deductions –– net, to be amortized over the development period rather than the life of the agreement, as we currently do. We continue to monitor additional changes, modifications, clarifications or interpretations undertaken by the FASB, which may impact our current conclusions. In addition, we continue to monitor other changes, such as changes in our business, new collaboration arrangements, business combinations, etc., which may impact our current conclusions prior to the adoption date. 
 
 
 In August 2016, the FASB issued new guidance on the classification of certain transactions in the Statement of Cash Flows. 
 
 
 
 January 1, 2018. Earlier application is permitted. 
 
 
 
 We are assessing the impact of this guidance on our consolidated financial statements. 
 
 
 In October 2016, the FASB issued new guidance on the presentation of restricted cash in the Statement of Cash Flows. 
 
 
 
 January 1, 2018. Earlier application is permitted. 
 
 
 
 We are assessing the impact of this guidance on our consolidated financial statements. 
 
 
 In October 2016, the FASB issued an update to its guidance on income tax accounting. The new guidance replaces the prohibition against recognizing current and deferred income taxes for an intra-entity asset transfer until the asset has been sold to an outside party with a requirement to do so, unless the asset transferred is inventory. 
 
 
 
 January 1, 2018. Earlier application is permitted in the first interim period of an annual reporting period. 
 
 
 
 We have not yet completed our review of the impact of this new guidance on our consolidated financial statements. The impact of adoption will be recorded as a cumulative effect adjustment to Retained earnings. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2016 Financial Report 
 
 
 
 
 59 
 
 
 Financial Review 
 Pfizer Inc. and Subsidiary Companies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Standard/Description 
 
 
 
 Effective Date 
 
 
 
 Effect on the Financial Statements or Other Significant Matters 
 
 
 In January 2016, the FASB issued an update to its guidance on recognition and measurement of financial assets and liabilities . Among other things, the new guidance makes the following targeted changes to existing guidance: 
 1. Requires certain equity investments to be measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income. However, an entity may choose to measure equity investments that do not have readily determinable fair values at cost minus impairment, if any, plus or minus changes resulting from observable price changes in orderly transactions for the identical or similar investment of the same issuer. 
 2. Requires a qualitative assessment of equity investments without readily determinable fair values to identify impairment. 
 3. Requires separate presentation of financial assets and financial liabilities by measurement category and form of financial asset on the balance sheet or in the accompanying notes to the financial statements. 
 
 
 
 January 1, 2018. Earlier application is permitted as of the beginning of an interim or annual reporting period. 
 
 
 
 We are assessing the impact of the provisions of this new guidance on our consolidated financial statements. 
 
 
 
 In January 2017, the FASB issued new guidance to clarify the definition of a business . The new guidance provides a new framework for determining whether business development transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions (or disposals) of assets or businesses. If the fair value of the gross assets acquired is concentrated in a single identifiable asset, the transaction will not qualify for treatment as a business. The new guidance also requires that to be considered a business, a set of integrated activities and assets must include, at a minimum, an input and a substantive process that together significantly contribute to the ability to create outputs, without regard as to whether a market participant could replace missing elements. In addition, the new guidance narrows the definition of the term "output" to make it consistent with how outputs are described in the updated revenue recognition guidance. 
 
 
 
 January 1, 2018. Earlier application is permitted for acquisition or derecognition events that occurred prior to issuance date or effective date of the guidance only when the transaction has not been reported in financial statements that have been issued or made available for issuance. 
 
 
 
 We have not yet completed our review of the impact of this guidance. However, we anticipate that after adoption, fewer transactions will be accounted for as business acquisitions (decreasing the amount of goodwill incurred and potentially increasing IPR&D expense), or disposals of a business. 
 
 
 In February 2017, the FASB issued amended guidance related to the derecognition of nonfinancial assets. 
 
 
 
 January 1, 2018. Earlier application is permitted only as of annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim reporting periods within that reporting period. However, this guidance must be applied at the same time as the new guidance on revenue recognition. 
 
 
 
 We are assessing the impact of the 
 provisions of this new guidance on our 
